One million dollars' worth of one-cent coins (100 million coins) weigh 246 tons.
About half of all Americans are on a diet on any given day.
The cosmos contains approximately 50,000,000,000 galaxies.
A quarter has 119 grooves on its edge, a dime has one less groove.
Most people blink about 17,000 times a day.
Italy has more hotel rooms than any other nation in Europe.
53% of us would take advice from Anne Landers.
Watching an hour-long soap opera burns more calories than watching a three-hour baseball game.
As you age, your eye color gets lighter.
Penguins can convert salt water into fresh water.
Children laugh about 400 times a day, while adults laugh on average only 15 times a day.
Stilts were invented by French shepherds who needed a way to get around in wet marshes.
During Bill Clinton's entire eight year presidency, he only sent two e-mails. One was to John Glenn when he was aboard the space shuttle, and the other was a test of the e-mail system.
Yahoo! was originally called 'Jerry's Guide to the World Wide Web'.
According to Gillette, around 70% of women who remove hair, do so by shaving.
The first dollar coin in the US was the silver dollar in 1794.
Goldfish lose their color if they are kept in dim light or are placed in a body of running water, such as a stream.
Primary colors are colors from which all other colors can be made.
The best time for a person to buy shoes is in the afternoon. This is because the foot tends to swell a bit around this time.
It's easier to find gold than it is to win the lottery.
Colobus monkeys have bushy tails, which often exceeds the length of their bodies.
The Monty Python movie 'The Life of Brian' was banned in Scotland.
Fingerprints of koalas are similar (in pattern, shape and size) to the fingerprints of humans.
Most gemstones contain several elements. The exception? The diamond. It's all carbon.
A shark can detect one part of blood in 100 million parts of water.
Acorns were used as a coffee substitute during the American Civil War.
Italians used to be known for having large families, however Italy is now known for having Europe's lowest birthrate.
In Japan, watermelons are squared. It's easier to stack them that way.
We blink 25 times a minute.
On the new $100 bill the time on the clock tower of Independence Hall is 4:10.
During your lifetime, you'll eat about 60,000 pounds of food, that's the weight of about 6 elephants.
The internet slang ASL means 'age, sex, location'.
The largest taxi fleet in the world is found in Mexico City. The city boasts a fleet of over 60,000 taxis.
Pearls melt in vinegar.
Italy has a resident foreign population of 1.27 million.
The underside of a horse's hoof is called a frog. The frog peels off several times a year with new growth.
Two very popular and common objects have the same function, but one has thousands of moving parts, while the other has absolutely no moving parts - an hourglass and a sundial.
56,000,000 people go to Major League baseball each year.
Cranberry Jell-O is the only flavor that contains real fruit flavoring.
Your home is ten times more likely to have a fire than be burglarized!
Oak trees do not have acorns until they are fifty years old or older.
In the 17th century, the value of pi was known to 35 decimal places. Today, to 1.2411 trillion.
The call of the humpback whale is louder than Concorde and can be heard from 500 miles away.
The weather word Aurora Borealis means The aurora, or northern lights, of the Northern Hemisphere.
In Japan, there are special slippers for the toilet.
When a person dies, hearing is generally the last sense to go. The first sense lost is usually sight. Then follows taste, smell, and touch.
The only living coral reefs in the US (hawaii not included) is in the Florida Keys.
Peter Falk, who played 'Columbo,' has a glass eye.
Niagara Reservation became the first state park in the U.S.
Until 1997, there were more pigs than people in Denmark.
Every year we produce more transistors than grains of rice.
In Raiders of the Lost Ark there is a wall carving of R2-D2 and C-3P0 behind the ark.
The original name of Bank of America was Bank of Italy.
Americans did not commonly use forks until after the Civil War.
The lens of the eye continues to grow throughout a person's life.
Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania is the only permanent snowcap within sight of the equator.
The Idiom 'go through fire and water' means to experience many difficulties or dangers in order to achieve something.
According to a Harvard School of Public Health study, nearly twice as many people commit suicide in the 15 states in the US with the highest gun ownership rates than in the six states with the lowest rates.
'Three Men & a Baby' star, Tom Selleck was once better known as Jed Andrews in US soap, The Young & The Restless.
The twin towers of World Trade Center in New York had 208 elevators.
Smokers eat more sugar than non-smokers do.
998 million people play Volleyball.
South Carolina grows more peaches than any other state except California.
The Kentucky Supreme Court has ruled that the prosecution must throw its files wide open to the defense if the accused is suffering from amnesia.
46 out of Montana's 56 counties are considered 'frontier counties' with an average population of 6 or fewer people per square mile. No state has as many different species of mammals as Montana.
The first king of Rome was its legendary founder, Romulus.
The temperature can be determined by counting the number of cricket chirps in fourteen seconds and adding 40.
About 39,000 gallons of water are used to produce the average car!
Pinball was invented in 1930 by In and Outdoor Games Company in Chicago.
Some birds have been know to put ants into their feathers because the ants squirt formic acid, which kills parasites.
Quinine, one of the most important drugs known to man, is obtained from the dried bark of an evergreen tree native to South America.
Dalmations are born without their spots. The spots appear as they mature.
Tug of War was an Olympic event between 1900 and 1920.
40% of McDonald's profits come from the sales of Happy Meals.
Snowiest city in the U.S. : Blue canyon, California.
In 2005, the US government spent on average over $20,000 for each household.
In the English language love has many meanings which leads to us having different types of love.
A woodpecker can peck twenty times a second.
Contrary to popular belief, the first ironclad warships were built by Korea in the 16th century.
Chimpanzees use tools more than any other animal except man.
It costs more to buy a new car today in the United States than it cost Christopher Columbus to equip and undertake three voyages to and from the New World.
The number of text messages sent and received in a given day is greater than the world's population.
In Japan they drink tea with almost every meal.
Colgate faced big obstacle marketing toothpaste in Spanish speaking countries. Colgate translates into the command 'go hang yourself'.
Each day 100 or more whales are killed by fishermen.
The snow leopard protects itself from extreme cold when it sleeps by wrapping its 3-foot-long tail around its nose.
Richard Millhouse Nixon was the first US president whose name contains all the letters from the word criminal. The second was William Jefferson Clinton.
Ostriches stick their heads into the sand to find underground drinking water.
More steel in the US is used to make bottle caps than to manufacture automobile bodies.
As an adult, you have more than 20 square feet of skin on your body\u2013about the same square footage as a blanket for a queen-sized bed.
A six-pound sea hare can lay 40,000 eggs in a single minute.
Before toilet paper was invented, French royalty wiped their bottoms with fine linen.
Dr. Seuss pronounced his name 'soyce'.
Michael Jordan makes more money from Nike each year than all the Nike factory workers in Malaysia combined.
The first known motion picture was produced by Louis Aim' + '\u00e8' +' Augustin Le Prince at Roundhay House, Leeds, UK some time before October of 1888.
Bruce Lee was so fast that they actually had to s-l-o-w film down so you could see his moves. That's the opposite of the norm.
The native way to say I love you in Malay is Saya cintamu/Saya sayangmu.
Instead, they attended medical schools, many of which were condemned in the press and by the government as 'substandard'.
Today's modern Italian language originated in the region of Tuscany.
Watermelons in Japan can cost up to $100.
Before 1920, it was technically legal to send children through the mail.
Men's shirts have the buttons on the right, but women's shirts have the buttons on the left.
Earth's orbit around the Sun makes a year at nearly 365 and 1/2 days.
The average coach airline meal costs the airline $4.00. The average first class meal: $50.
Male mosquitoes do not bite, so blame the females next time.
When Britney Spears books into hotels she uses the name 'Allota Warmheart' so that nobody will recognize her.
More people have seen David Copperfield perform live than any other performer in the world.
The electric chair was invented by a dentist.
-40 degrees Celsius is equal to -40 degrees Fahrenheit.
A pair of human feet contain 250,000 sweat glands.
As of 2006, more than one in eight people in the United States show signs of addiction to the internet.
Betsy Ross was born with a fully formed set of teeth.
Pet superstores now sell about 40 percent of all pet food.
In a fight between a polar bear and a lion, the polar bear would win.
Quasars are the most distant objects in the Universe.
5 years ago: The first successful cloning of human embryo.
Kilts are not native to Scotland. They originated in France.
The focusing muscles of the eyes move around 100,000 times a day. To give your leg muscles the same workout, you would need to walk 80km (50 miles) every day.
Dogs and cats, like humans, are either right or left handed.
90% of all restaurants fail during their first year of operation.
Keanu Reeves is afraid of the dark.
50% admit they regularly sneak food into movie theaters to avoid the high prices of snack foods.
In a day, an elephant can drink 80 gallons of water.
Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, and Jim Morrison were all 27 years old when they died.
Einstein had an illegitimate child.
The '@' symbol is over 500 years old.
Pancakes are commonly served for breakfast, lunch, and dinner in Australia.
In Tibet it is considered good manners to stick out your tongue at someone.
A scallop moves by sucking water into its shell and then squirting it out suddenly. It likes to wander around and this gives it enough force to push it in front in a zig zag manner.
Picasso was a terrible student.
28% of us have skinny-dipped. (14% with the opposite sex.)
Canadian researchers have found that Einstein's brain was 15% wider than normal.
Eskimos have over 100 words for ice.
It is the female lion who does more than 90 percent of the hunting, while the male is afraid to risk his life, or simply prefers to rest.
Average life span of a major league baseball: 7 pitches.
A baby is born without kneecaps. They appear between age 2 and 6.
The lucky numbers of the horse is: 1, 3, 4, 8, 13, 14, 41 & 43
The 'sixth sick sheik's sixth sheep's sick' is said to be the toughest tongue twister in the English language.
Adriaan van der Donck was the first and only lawyer in New York City in 1653.
Banging your head against a wall uses 150 calories an hour.
Almost everyone who reads this will try to lick their elbow.
Antarctica is the only continent that does not have land areas below sea level.
Singapore is home to the world's first night zoo.
Ithyphallophobia is a morbid fear of seeing, thinking about or having an erect penis.
The phrase 'rule of thumb' is derived from and old English law which stated that you couldn't beat your wife with anything wider than your thumb.
The number of births that occur in India each year is higher than the entire population of Australia.
In 1994, there were four murders and eight attempted murders of abortion providers in the United States. In 2004, there were zero.
If China imported just 10% of it's rice needs- the price on the world market would increase by 80%.
About 80% of the city was burned in the Great Fire of London in 1666.
The four principal characters from the cartoon series 'The Chipmunks' are Alvin, Simon, Theodore, and Dave.
On September 6th 1969 Warren Burger was confirmed as US Chief Justice.
On January 10th 1978, Soyuz 27 was launched.
In 1986 governor Toney Anaya declared that New Mexico would serve as a sanctuary for Central American refugees.
In 1956, 80% of all U.S. households had a refrigerator, but only 8% of British households had one!
Dandelion root can be roasted and ground as a coffee substitute.
When you hear a bullwhip snap, it's because the tip is traveling faster than the speed of sound.
The oldest patented company logo is the red triangle of Bass beers!
Patrick Henry made his 'Give me Liberty or Give me Death' speech in St. John's Church in Richmond.
Farmers in England are required by law to provide their pigs with toys!
Your heart pumps about 2,000 gallons of blood each day!
In 1971 the bloodiest prison rebellion in U.S. history resulted in the deaths of 43 people at the Attica State Correctional Facility.
It would take over an hour for a heavy object to sink 6.7 miles down to the deepest part of the ocean.
Average people airborne over the US any given hour: 61,000.
Men can read smaller print than women; women can hear better.
Women shoplift more often than men; the statistics are 4 to 1.
Spain leads the world in cork production.
Mackinac Bridge: Completed in 1957, the five-mile-long suspension bridge (WORLD'S LONGEST SUSPENSION BRIDGE) connects Michigan's peninsulas across the Straits of Mackinac.
Texas's population grew by 1.5 million in the early 1990s, making the state the second largest in the country after California.
The NY phone book had 22 Hitlers before WWII. The NY phone book had 0 Hitlers after WWII.
Bears whose brown fur is tipped with lighter-colored hairs are called grizzly bears .
The Weddell seal can travel underwater for seven miles without surfacing for air.
On May 18, 1980, Mount Saint Helens erupted in Washington, resulting in 57 deaths and billions of dollars in damage.
Intelligent people have more zinc and copper in their hair.
The native way to say I love you in Albanian is Te dua.
The Amazon rainforest produces more than 20% the world's oxygen supply.
The percent of women who wash their hands after leaving a restroom is 80%.
Americans consume 17 billion quarts of popcorn annually.
Research show that only 43% of homemade dinners served in the US include vegetables.
The average bed is home to over 6 billion dust mites.
October 12th, 1999 was declared 'The Day of Six Billion' based on United Nations projections.
About 90% of the worlds population kisses.
At their closest point, the Russian and U.S. borders are less than two miles apart.
The six official languages of the U.N. are: English, French, Arabic, Chinese, Russian and Spanish.
A Roman Centurion commanded 100 hundred men.
Queen Elizabeth of Britain sent her first email in 1976.
The time spent deleting SPAM costs United States businesses $21.6 billion annually.
During World War II, the British Intelligence used the Colossus Machines (precursor to computers) at Bletchley Park to help decode the enigma code of the Nazis.
George Washington grew marijuana in his garden.
Justin Timberlake's half-eaten french toast sold for over $3,000 on eBay!
The average chocolate bar has 8 insects' legs in it.
Australian soldiers used the song 'We're Off to See the Wizard' as a marching song in WWII.
Nebraska is the only state in the union with a unicameral (one house) legislature.
The native way to say I love you in Hausa is Ina sonki.
A marine catfish can taste with any part of its body.
One of pitcher Nolan Ryan's jockstraps recently sold at auction for $25,000.
The native way to say I love you in Yiddish is Ikh hob dikh lib.
The Taco Bell dog is actually a female, and her real name is Gidget.
Ohio claims the first chewing gum in 1869, and the first hot dog in 1900.
Hippos have killed more people in Africa than any other wild animal
4.5 pounds of sunlight strike the Earth each day.
One person in two billion will live to be 116 or older.
One in ten people live on an island.
In 1977, George Willig was fined $1.10 for climbing the World Trade Center building.
The internet slang POTS means 'parents over the shoulder' - (My parents are watching, I can't really talk)
Jackie Kennedy Onassis was secretly a chain smoker.
The maximum number of solar eclipses (partial, annular, or total) is 5 per year.
In 1938 Joe Shuster and Jerry Siegel sold all rights to the comic-strip character Superman to their publishers for $130.
Coca-Cola translated to Chinese means, To make mouth happy.
Eating a packet of crisps a day is equivalent to drinking five liters of cooking oil a year.
A 1997 survey showed that 75% of women made their bed every day, whilst only 45% of men admitted to performing this daily chore.
Quincy is home to the first Dunkin Donuts and the first Howard Johnson's.
In a study of 200,000 ostriches over a period of 80 years, no one reported a single case where an ostrich buried its head in the sand.
Hawaii is the only coffee producing state.
The typewriter was invented by Hungarian immigrant Qwert Yuiop, who left his 'signature' on the keyboard.
The U.S. army packs Tabasco pepper sauce in every ration kit that they give to soldiers.
The odds of being killed by falling out of bed are one in two million.
Ever since Daniel Swarovski built his first laboratory in 1913, for the 'cultivation' of his now famous Swarovski crystals, his 'stones' have had more fire and brilliance and less 'flaws' than even the finest diamonds.
75% of wild birds die before they are 6 months old.
Alabama was the first state to recognize Christmas as an official holiday.
Israel invaded Lebanon to rid area of Palestine guerrillas on March 15th 1978.
The coyote can run up to a speed of 40 mph.
The average human eats 8 spiders in their lifetime at night.
Albrecht Haller IQ Score 190.
Snoop Dogg's real name is Cordozar Calvin Broadus Jr.
The powder on chewing gum is finely-ground marble.
Nerve impulses to and from the brain travel as fast as 170 miles (274 km) per hour.
A typical full-time worker in the US with a four-year college degree earns about $50,000. This is 62% more than a worker with only a high-school diploma.
Female and male black bears cannot tolerate being around each other except when they breed.
To make much noise when eating soup is a good thing in China
White Out was invented by the mother of Mike Nesmith (formerly of the Monkees).
Brazil is home to the longest buses in the world. The buses are 26,5 metres long and made by Volvo.
The portrait of George Washington found on the United States one-dollar bill was painted by Rhode Islander Gilbert Stuart.
There are 50 million abortions performed every year world-wide. An estimated 40% of those are performed illegally.
The Idiom 'to break the ice' means to say or do something to reduce tension at a first meeting. In other words, to get through the first difficulties in starting a conversation or discussion.
The short phrases of organ music played at a baseball game is called a tucket.
During the time of Peter the Great, any Russian man who had a beard was required to pay a special tax.
Mosquitoes have 47 teeth.
The first battle of the US Civil War took place at Fort Sumter in South Carolina April 7, 1863.
Jericho is the oldest walled city in the world at 9,000 yrs old!
The name Adidas is made up from the name of the founder Adolf (Adi) Dassler.
Babies crawl an average of 200 meters a day.
When used by an ornithologist, the word 'lore' refers to the space between a bird's eye and its bill.
At 120 miles per hour, a Formula One car generates so much downforce that it can drive upside down on the roof of a tunnel.
Washington, D.C. has one lawyer for every 19 residents!
Mickey Mouse is known as 'Topolino' in Italy.
The native way to say I love you in Tagalog is Mahal kita.
Thailand has the world's Biggest Gold Buddha Image.
About 30% of consumers use their credit card as their main means of buying Christmas goodies, 70% do not save to buy Christmas gifts and 86% of consumers do their Christmas shopping during December.
J.B Dunlop was first to put air into tires.
The first Harley Davidson motorcycle was built in 1903, and used a tomato can for a carburetor.
Hagley Museum was originally the du Pont black powder manufactory, estate, and gardens.
At horse race tracks, the favorite wins fewer than 30% of the time!
In 1911 a dog was killed by a meteor at Nakhla, Egypt. This unlucky dog is the only creatre known to have been killed by a meteor.
The verb 'cleave' is the only English word with two synonyms which are antonyms of each other: adhere and separate.
As a teenager, Kevin Costner sang in a church choir.
In Colombia, an individual can be fined up to $90,000 for gossiping.
Six-year-olds laugh an average of 300 times a day. Adults only laugh 15 to 100 times a day.
Dallas Fish Market was ranked among the Top 10 seafood restaurants for 2008 by Bon Appetit magazine.
Each year there is one ton of cement poured for each man woman and child in the world.
Cleopatra married two of her brothers.
Sunbathing on sunny days with clouds in the sky can be dangerous.
Baby elephants can drink over 80 litres of milk a day.
The Idiom 'could talk under water / could talk under wet cement' means someone who has a lot to say in any situation.
The Jazz Singer, 1927, was the first movie with audible dialogue.
The oldest dog died at the age of 29.
There are more donut shops in Canada per capita than any other country.
The deepest hole ever made in the world (in Texas) is as deep as 20 empire state buildings but only 3 inches wide.
It was illegal to sell E.T. dolls in France because there is a law against selling dolls without human faces.
The Saguaro Cactus, found in South-western United States does NOT grow branches until it is 75 years old.
Jaws is the most common name for a goldfish.
A group of unicorns is called a blessing.
In Meg Ryan's 1981 film debut in Rich and Famous, Candice Bergen played her mother.
Oregon's state flag is the only state flag to carry two separate designs, with a beaver on its reverse side.
250 to 300 million cell phones are being used in the U.S.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. Wild cats hold their tail horizontally, or tucked between their legs while walking.
A whale can swim for 3 months without eating.
Arizona has more parks and national monuments than any other state, more mountains than Switzerland, and more golf courses than Scotland.
A lion in the wild usually makes no more than twenty kills a year.
There are more than 40,000 characters in Chinese script.
Albert Einstein IQ Score 160.
In 1980, the city of Detroit presented Saddam Hussein with a key to the city.
The most fatal car accidents occur on Saturday.
A one ounce milk chocolate bar has 6 mg of caffeine.
The term karaoke means 'empty orchestra' in Japanese, and the karaoke machine was designed originally to provide backing tracks for solo cabaret performers.
The heart of an astronaut actually gets smaller when in outer space.
Pivot Rock balances on a base 15 times smaller than its top.
In India, people are legally allowed to marry a dog!
Last 2 European countries to let women vote: Switzerland (1971) and Leichtenstein (1984).
The rocket engine has to supply its own oxygen so it can burn its fuel in outer space.
The thyroid cartilage is more commonly known as the adams apple.
There are over 20 million observable meteors per day.
The first Roman Emperor was Augustus Octavian, who came to power in 27 BC.
One American of every 16 will have one of the Top 12 most common last names.
The scales of a crocodile are made of ceratin, the same substance that hooves and fingernails are made of.
Bette Midler, Barry Manilow and many other famous vocalists got their start in a New York City club called The Continental Baths.
John Quincy Adams, sixth president of the United States, loved to skinny dip in the Potomac River.
Government employment, especially the Federal government and military, has replaced tobacco as the state's number one industry.
Americans throw away 2.5 million plastic bottles every hour.
The aerosol can was invented in Bartlesville; the parking meter in Oklahoma; and the shopping cart in Ardmore.
The border between Canada and the U.S. is the world's longest frontier. It stretches 3,987 miles (6,416 km).
There are three golf balls sitting on the Moon.
Bananas contain a natural chemical which can make a person happy. This same chemical is also found in Prozac.
The Idiom 'out of one's depth/beyond one's depth' means outside one's understanding or competence.
Salmon can jump as high as 6 feet.
English sailors came to be called Limeys after using lime juice to combat scurvy.
Babies that are breastfed are more likely to be slimmer as adults than those that are not breastfed.
Most household dust is made of dead skin cells.
A 10-gallon hat barely holds 6 pints.
Northpark Center was the first air-conditioned mall in the U.S.
The egg came first.
The sensitivity of a woman's middle finger is reduced during menstruation.
60 Minutes on CBS is the only TV show to not have a theme song or music.
A Crocodile weighing 120 pounds exerts a force of about 1,540 pounds between its jaws. A human's jaw exerts a force of about 140 to 180 pounds.
The tallest structure in the world was the Eiffel Tower.
The average Italian consumes 26 gallons of wine a year.
Americans throw away 44 million newspapers every day.
The first outdoor sign advertising Coca-Cola still exists. It was originally painted in 1894 and is located in Cartersville, Georgia.
Disney World in Orlando, Florida covers 30,500 acres (46 square miles), making it twice the size of the island of Manhattan, New York.
The people killed most often during bank robberies are the robbers.
James Doohan, who played Scottie in Star Trek, is missing the entire middle finger on his right hand.
Israel's Dead Sea is 1,312 feet below sea level.
Only 4% asked the parents' approval for their bride's hand
Human hair and fingernails continue to grow after death.
Kittens are born both blind and deaf.
Madrid has the highest altitude of all European capital.
The average French citizen eats 500 snails per year.
The American Automobile Association was founded for the sole purpose of warning motorists of police speed traps!
The Great Barrier Reef is home to about 400 species of different corals.
Squirrel Monkeys are the most common monkey in South-America.
Of the 17,677 words Shakespeare used in his plays, sonnets, narrative poems, he was the first to use over 1,700 of them.
There are 336 dimples on a regulation US golf ball. In the UK its 330.
U.S. President Calvin Coolidge liked to eat breakfast while having his head rubbed with vaseline.
The area which is today Vermont was first explored by Frenchman Samuel de Champlain in 1609, when he claimed it for his home country.
Russia celebrates Christmas twice a year, December 25 and January 7th.
Cows drink anywhere from 25-50 gallons of water each day.
In North America the buffalo is the largest animal (land animal).
When the University of Nebraska Cornhuskers play football at home to a sellout crowd, the stadium becomes the state's third largest city.
Apples are 25% air.
The internet slang AML means all my love
Tobacco is a $200 billion industry, producing six trillion cigarettes a year - about 1,000 cigarettes for each person on earth.
Club Direct, a travel insurance company in Britain, provides insurance plans for protection from falling coconuts.
Males sweat 40% more than females.
A snake just like all reptiles are incapable of learning.
In ancient Rome it was considered a sign of leadership to be born with a crooked nose!
In the eighteenth century, many women went to the trouble of having their gums pierced so they could use hooks to secure their false teeth.
In the course of an average lifetime you will, while sleeping, eat 70 assorted insects and 10 spiders.
In Haiti, only 1 out of every 200 people own a car.
Famous billionaire Howard Hughes stored his own urine in large bottles.
US Dollars are not made out of paper, they are made out of cotton.
Statue of Liberty: During the restoration completed in 1986, the new torch was carefully covered with thin sheets of 24k gold.
Bacterias can reproduce independently (self reproduce) by a process called binary fission where the parent cell (bacterium) divides (splits) into two new cells (bacteria) called daughter cells.
In France, it is legal to marry a dead person!
Thomas Alva Edison patented almost 1,300 inventions in his lifetime!
The webbed feet of the stormy petrel enable it to 'walk' on water. It spends almost its entire life over the ocean and only comes to land to breed. If a storm arises, they can't walk on water and are forced to remain in the air all day and night.
Annual location shoots on the streets of New York number 40,000 \u2013 including commercials, feature films, television shows and series, music videos and documentaries.
The Mall of America in Bloomington is over 9.5 million square feet in size.
'Vodka' is Russian for 'little water'.
Every spring nearly 10,000 white pelicans with a wingspan of nine feet migrate from the Gulf of Mexico to Medicine Lake in northeastern Montana.
Sugar cost four cents a pound. Eggs were 14 cents a dozen. Coffee cost 15 cents a pound.
A dragonfly has a lifespan of 24 hours.
The longest recorded flight of a chicken is 13 seconds!
The Mall in Washington, D.C. is 1.4 times larger than Vatican City.
Lisa Eichhorn was born on February 2nd 1952.
A mole will die if it doesn't get food within 12 hours.
New York's Central Park is nearly twice the size of the entire country of Monaco.
It snowed in the Sahara Desert in February of 1979.
Pele is considered the best soccer player that ever lived.
Daniel Boone hated coonskin caps.
Replying more than 100 times to the same piece of spam e-mail will overwhelm the sender's system and interfere with their ability to send any more spam.
When the pituitary gland malfunctions, it can boost or reduce the amount of growth hormone in a growing child's body, resulting in gigantism or dwarfism.
There is a species of clam that can grow up to four feet long and weigh up to 500 pounds.
The lowest temperature measured is -128.6\u0410F / -89.6\u0410C at the Vostok Station in Antarctica on 21 July 1983. The measure is without windchill.
The largest meteorite crater in the world is in Winslow, Arizona. It is 4,150 feet across and 150 feet deep.
Abe Lincoln bought 50 cents worth of cocaine in 1860.
The Greyhounds can jump a distance of 27 feet.
The largest mass wedding in history was held in The Olympic Stadium in Seoul, South Korea where 35000 people were married.
Until the nineteenth century, solid blocks of tea were used as money in Siberia.
Vultures fly without flapping their wings.
The Green Card is actually pink.
The largest snowflakes in the world fell across Fort Keogh in Montana (USA) on 28 January 1887.
Eleven top executives of the Direct Marketing Association (the telemarketers' group that is trying to kill the federal 'Do Not Call' list) have registered for the list themselves.
The infinity character on the keyboard is called a 'lemniscate'.
Joseph Gayetty of New York City invented toilet paper in 1857.
A killer whale's heart beats 30 times a minute under water, 60 times a minute on the surface.
On average a hedgehog's heart beats 300 times a minute.
The average car produces a pound of pollution every 25 miles!
The largest diamond ever found was an astounding 3,106 carats!
Famous Italian explorers include Christopher Columbus, Marco Polo, John Cabot, and Amerigo Vespucci.
Grapes explode when you put them in the microwave.
Each year, the average family uses about 18,000 gallons of water just to do its laundry!
Saturn is the only planet in our Solar System that is less dense than water. Which means that if you could build a ridiculously large bathtub, Saturn would actually float in it.
You use 200 muscles to take one step.
The largest bat has almost a 6 foot wing span.
To clean corrosion from car battery terminals: Pour a can of Coca-Cola over the terminals to bubble away the corrosion.
The banana tree cannot reproduce itself. It can be propagated only by the hand of man.
A toaster uses almost half as much energy as a full-sized oven.
It's been proven that people can lessen reactions to allergies by laughing.
Stone Mountain near Atlanta is one of the largest single masses of exposed granite in the world.
Human teeth are almost as hard as rocks.
Broccoli and cauliflower are the only vegetables that are flowers.
Quebec City, Canada, has about as much street crime as Disney World.
A Saudi Arabian woman can get a divorce if her husband doesn't give her coffee.
Louisiana's capital building is the tallest one of any U.S. state.
The FDA allows an average of 30 or more insect fragments and one or more rodent hairs per 100 grams of peanut butter.
Blue Peter pet, Petra the mongrel puppy, died two days after being introduced. A replacement was found.
A government study showed that one small thunderstorm held more than 33 million gallons of water.
Table tennis balls have been known to travel off the paddle at speeds up to 160 km/hr.
The word 'News' is actually an acronym standing for the 4 cardinal compass points - North, East, West, and South!
The ostrich has a 46-foot long small intestine.
Americans are responsible for about 1/5 of the world's garbage annually.
Everton have never won the League Cup.
Juan del Cano (on Magellan's ship Vittoria) completed the first circumnavigation of the world on September 6, 1522. Magellan died during the voyage.
You can't kill yourself by holding your breath.
Houseflies hum in the key of E.
The largest castle area in the world is Prague Castle.
The only President to win a Pulitzer Prize: John Kennedy for 'Profiles in Courage'.
In New York State, it is illegal to but any alcohol on Sundays before noon.
Kampang School in northeastern Thailand is the first school to open a toilet for transvestite pupils.
The only capital letter in the Roman alphabet with exactly one end point is P.
Lithuania has the highest suicide rate in the world.
In Cleveland, Ohio it is illegal to catch mice without a hunting license.
A thimbleful of a neutron star would weigh over 100 million tons.
Alexander I of Greece - king of the Hellenes 1917 - 20 died October 25th 1920 from blood poisoning after being bitten by his gardener's pet monkey.
In 2005, Canada was the single-largest trading partner with the United States. China was second and Mexico was third.
The first airline, DELAG, was established on October 16, 1909, to carry passengers between German cities by Zeppelin airships. Up to November 1913, more than 34,000 people had used the service.
Cellophane is not made of plastic. It is made from a plant fiber, cellulose, which has been shredded and aged.
Many songs about appreciating and honoring the fine work done by Chinese police officers.
1 in 5 men proposed on his knees.
Naples is the largest city in southern Italy.
The Sanskrit word for 'war' means 'desire for more cows'.
Some large clouds store enough water for 500,000 showers.
Los Angeles's full name is 'El Pueblo de Nuestra Senora la Reina de los Angeles de Porciuncula'!
Idaho is the leading producer of potatoes in the nation, accounting for nearly one-third of the national production.
Inbreeding causes 3 out of every 10 Dalmation dogs to suffer from hearing disability.
A newborn baby sees the world upside down because it takes some time for the baby's brain to learn to turn the image right-side up.
Early Romans used to use porcupine quills as toothpicks.
Months that start with a Sunday always has a Friday the 13th.
Large kangaroos can cover more than 30 feet with each jump!
A snail's reproductive organs are in its head.
People used to wear shoes on either foot.
Benjamin Franklin wanted the national bird to be a turkey.
Mill Ends Park in Portland, the world's smallest official park, measures two feet across. It was created in 1948 for the leprechauns, and a place to hold snail races on St. Patrick's Day.
Sir Isaac Newton, who invented Calculus, had trouble with names to the point where he would forget his brothers' names.
Two rats can parent 15,000 rats in less than a year.
A thick glass is more likely to crack if hot water is poured onto it than a thin one.
Australian termites have been known to build mounds twenty feet high and at least 100 feet wide.
Onions help reduce cholesterol if eaten after a fatty meal.
In 1386, a pig was executed by public hanging for the murder of a child.
Ten per cent of the salt mined in the world each year is used to de-ice the roads in America.
Ten minutes of one hurricane contains enough energy to match the nuclear stockpiles of the world.
Due to gravitational effects, you weigh slightly less when the Moon is directly overhead.
X-rays of the Mona Lisa show that there are three completely different versions of the same subject, all painted by Leonardo Da Vinci, under the final portrait.
A house cat spends 70% of its time sleeping.
The IRS processes more than 2 billion pieces of paper each year.
Sterling silver contains 7.5% copper.
There are 60,000 miles (97,000 km) in blood vessels in every human.
Although now mostly vegetarian, in Victorian times, mince pies were made with beef and spices.
The City of Dallas has more than 300 public art works in its collection, displayed throughout the city.
A species of earthworm in Australia grows up to 10 feet in length.
Snow Monkeys live in areas where the temperature is an average of -10 \u00b0 C.
About 4 gallons of water is used while brushing your teeth.
Your heart rate can rise as much as 30% during a yawn.
The piano hails from Italy.
In Arizona, you may not have more than two dildos in a house.
The chameleon has a tongue that is one and a half times the length of his body.
Jaw muscles can provide about 200 pounds of force to bring the back teeth together for chewing.
North Dakota is the only state in the US that has never had an earthquake.
Good bye came from God bye which came from God be with you. So-long came from the Arabic salaam and the Hebrew shalom.
The center of the Sun is about 27 million degrees Fahrenheit (15 million \u00b0C).
Illinois has the most personalized license plates of any state.
The only real person to be a PEZ head was Betsy Ross.
Donald Duck's middle name is Fauntleroy.
Vermont was the first state after the original 13 colonies to join the United States.
Spam filters that catch the word 'cialis' will not allow many work-related e-mails through because that word is embedded inside the word 'specialist'.
As early as 246 B.C., con men were at work 'aging' manuscripts and selling them to book collectors as antiques.
A kiss stimulates 29 muscles and chemicals causing relaxation. Women seem to like it light and frequent, men like it more strenuous.
You will have to walk 80 kilometers for your legs to equal the amount of exercise your eyes get daily.
Colgate's first toothpaste came in a jar.
One cubic mile of seawater contains about 50 pounds of gold.
The native way to say I love you in Russian is Ya lyublyu tebya/Ya vas lyublyu.
Most dust particles in your house are made from dead skin.
One of the German World War II submarines was sunk due to malfunction of the toilet.
The typewriter is an Italian invention.
The largest potato was grown in Lebanon by Khalil Semhat near Tyre. The spud was 11.3 kilos (24.9 pounds).
Eggplant is a member of the thistle family.
A skunk can spray its stinky scent more than 10 feet.
The population of the Earth has more than doubled since 1950.
Jim Morrison, of the 60's rock group The Doors, was the first rock star to be arrested on stage.
The worlds oldest piece of chewing gum is over 9000 years old!
Catfish are the only animals that naturally have an ODD number of whiskers.
29% of us are virgins when we marry.
The longest cells in the human body are the motor neurons. They can be up to 4.5 feet (1.37 meters) long and run from the lower spinal cord to the big toe.
Anne Boleyn, Queen Elizabeth I's mother, had six fingers on one hand.
More people are killed each year from bees than from snakes.
The 'spring' in Springer Spaniel referred to this dog's ability to spring or startle game.
The best recorded distance for projectile vomiting is 27 feet.
In 1976 an LA secretary named Jannene Swift officially married a 50 pound rock in a ceremony witnessed by more than 20 people.
The $81.5 million Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center, designed by the famous architect I.M. Pei, houses the Dallas Symphony Orchestra and one of the last handmade Fisk organs by C.B. Fisk.
The Moon is one million times drier than the Gobi Desert.
Taj Mahal is made entirely out of marble.
On August 3rd 1739, English revivalist George Whitefield wrote in a letter: 'I am no friend to sinless perfection. I believe the existence (though not the dominion) of sin remains in the hearts of the greatest believers.'
On August 3rd in 1881 US Nation Lawn Tennis Association removes 'Nation' from name.
7-Eleven is the largest retail chain in the world.
The oldest known fossil is of a single-celled organism, blue-green algae, found in 3.2 billion year-old stones in South Africa.
The ampersand (&) was once a letter of the English alphabet.
There are no words in the dictionary that rhyme with orange, purple, silver and month.
Elderly Japanese are the most likely to live with their children.
P. J. Tierney, father of the modern diner, died of indigestion in 1917 after eating at a diner.
61,000 people are airborne over the US at any given time.
Garlic can be effective as a mosquito repellent
Most Dinosaurs lived to be more than a hundred years old.
Alfred Hitchcock did not have a belly button. It was eliminated when he was sewn up after surgery.
According to the General Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, the typical American spends an average of one year of his or her life speaking on the telephone.
Bamboo can grow up to 36 inches a day.
A 1993 Florida law levies fines against anyone caught intentionally littering with plastic fishing gear or lines.
Whitby, Ontario has more donut stores per capita than any other place in the world.
American Pie star Jason Biggs spent a year playing bad boy Pete Wendall on the TV soap opera 'As The World Turns'.
17% have been caught by the host peeking in their bathroom cabinet.
The earliest known legal text was written by Ur Nammu in 2100 B.C.
Hyenas can comsume prey carrying anthrax without contracting the disease itself.
Most landfilled trash retains its original weight, volume, and form for 40 years.
The Chinese ideogram for 'trouble' depicts two women living under one roof'. I wonder why ;-).
The temperature of the earth's interior increases by 1 degree every 60 feet down.
The Ringed Planet is so far away from the Sun that it receives only about 1/80th the amount of sunlight that we do here on Earth. Yes, the Sun appears much smaller from there.
The largest flying animal was the pterosaur which lived 70 million years ago. This reptile had a wing span of 36-39 feet (11-11.9 meters) and weighed 190-250 pounds (86-113.5 kilograms).
A male emperor moth can smell a female emperor moth up to 7 miles away.
Dragon boat racing is the 8th most popular sport in the world!
The Wright Brothers made the first successful airplane flight in 1903 in Kitty Hawk.
The mask used by Michael Myers in the original 'Halloween' was a Captain Kirk's mask painted white.
Spinach consumption in the U.S. rose 33% after the Popeye comic strip became a hit in 1931.
Henry Ford produced the model T only in black because the black paint available at the time was the fastest to dry.
16% of us have forgotten our own wedding anniversary (mostly men).
Jake Gyllenhaal got his first driving lesson from family friend Paul Newman
You can actually buy land on the Moon.
Michael Keaton's original name is Michael Douglas.
The Romans mastered plumbing. They used copper piping and valves - the patents of some are still in use today.
40 to 50 percent of body heat can be lost through the head (no hat) as a result of its extensive circulatory network.
A crocodile cannot stick its tongue out.
Americans change about 400 million oil filters a year.
Everyone is colourblind at birth.
Your hair grows faster in the morning than at any other time of day.
The richest self-made American under 40 is Michael Dell, chairman of Dell Computers. He is worth $18 billion.
Cats purr at about 26 cycles per second, the same frequency as an idling diesel engine.
In 1940, Pennsylvania opened the first high-speed, multi-lane highway in the country, the Pennsylvania Turnpike, which set the pattern for modern super-highways throughout the nation.
The weather word aridity means The level at which a climate does not receive enough life-promoting moisture.
Gorillas are considered apes, not monkeys. The way to distinguish between an ape and a monkey is that apes do not have tails.
Rice paper does not have any rice in it!
The area around Venice is the wealthiest region in Europe.
45% of us consistently follow the speed limit. (This is hard to believe)
You can find about 560 carved doors in Zanzibar.
Astronauts get taller when they are in space.
In 1830, the first U.S. Steam locomotive built for railroad use was put into service in the state.
A mole can dig a tunnel 300 feet long in just one night.
Cartilage is one of the few tissues that grows throughout life. Between ages 30 and 70, a nose might grow half an inch, and the ears grow about a quarter of an inch.
On average, the life span of an American dollar bill is eighteen months.
Tequila is made from the root of the blue agave cactus.
Abraham Lincoln faces to the right on a penny while all the other presidents face to the left on US coins.
Missouri is first in the nation in production of lead. Lead deposits led the French to found Sainte Genevieve, the first permanent European settlement in Missouri, about 1750.
The major air-polluting industries are iron, steel and cement.
The Pentagon has 17.5 miles of corridors.
David Byrne the rocker was born on May 14th 1952 in England.
The male praying mantis cannot copulate while its head is attached to its body. The female initiates sex by ripping the male's head off.
The Arkansas River is the longest stream to flow into the Mississippi-Missouri river system. Its total length is 1,450 miles.
Adult cats with no health problems are in deep sleep 15 percent of their lives. They are in light sleep 50 percent of the time.
Maine is the only state that has borders with only one other state.
The average person will drink about 16,000 gallons of water in his/her lifetime.
King Louis XIV of France established in his court the position of 'Royal Chocolate Maker to the King.'
Only female mosquitoes bite and drink blood.
Air travel to Dallas takes fewer than four hours from most cities in Canada, Mexico and the United States.
In 1916, an elephant was tried and hung for murder in Erwin, Tennessee.
Bangkok has the worlds largest Chinatown
It's estimated that at any one time around 0.7% of the world's population is drunk.
There is a law on the books of Detroit, Michigan that states that Alligators may not be tied to fire hydrants.
Smiling at a dog causes him to think you are baring your teeth to show aggression.
Mariner 4 collected the first close-up photos of another planet when it flew by Mars. As it passed the planet it revealed lunar-type impact craters, some of them touched with frost in the chill Martian evening.
In its ancient form, the carrot was purple, not orange.
The native way to say I love you in Pilipino is Mahal Kita/Iniibig Kita.
Teflon is the slipperiest substance in the world.
The Gulf Stream could carry a message in a bottle at an average of 4 miles per hour.
Some baby giraffes are more than six feet tall at birth.
In Iceland, a Big Mac costs $5.50.
Statue of Liberty: A tablet held in her left hand measures 23' 7' tall and 13' 7' wide inscribed with the date JULY IV MDCCLXXVI (July 4, 1776).
On average, women say 7,000 words per day while men manage just over 2,000 words.
Albert Einstein did not speak until he was four years old.
Newton Battled Counterfeiters.
The company that manufactures the greatest number of women's dresses each year is Mattel. Barbie's got to wear something.
The only two days of the year in which there are no professional sports games in USA like the NFL,NBA, MLB, NHL or NFL are the day before and after the Major League all-stars Game.
No two spider webs are the same.
In a typical restaurant, customers get 27 cents worth of food for each dollar they spend.
A queen bee uses her stinger only to sting another queen bee.
1,400 actresses were interviewed for the part of Scarlett O'Hara in Gone with the Wind.
No one has ever been able to domesticate the African elephant. Only the Indian elephant can be trained by man.
The arteries and veins surrounding the brain stem called the 'circle of Willis' looks like a stick person with a large head.
Native Hawaiian women were not allowed to cook.
More than 90% of plane crashes have survivors.
20252 is Smokey the Bear's own zip code.
Mosquito repellents don't repel. They hide you. The spray blocks the mosquito's sensors so they don't know your there.
Jeremy Bentham, a British philosopher who died in 1832,left his entire estate to the London Hospital provided that his body be allowed to preside over its board meetings. His skeleton was clothed and fitted with a wax mask of his face. It was present at the meeting for 92 years.
A real estate agent's rule of thumb: To estimate what a house will sell for, ask the owner what its worth and subtract 10%.
Sweden has the least number of murders annually.
Napoleon spent his first exile on the Italian island of Elba.
The word 'Bye' is used in both English and Spanish meaning the same thing.
Albert Einstein was offered the presidency of Israel in 1952, but he declined.
The animal that lived longest of all was a turtle. It lived to become the respectable age of 188 years.
If you went out into space, you would explode before you suffocated because there's no air pressure.
A rainbow can only be seen in the morning or late afternoon.
City Hall was designed by Pritzker-Prize winning architect I.M. Pei and features an outdoor sculpture by Henry Moore.
After his sight improved, Thomas Edison still preferred using Braille to more normal reading.
More money is spent on gardening than on any other hobby!
By raising your legs slowly and lying on your back, you can't sink in quicksand.
Microsoft threatened 17 year old Mike Rowe with a lawsuit after the young man launched a website named MikeRoweSoft.com.
Earthworms have five hearts.
Delta Phi, the oldest continually operated fraternity, is located at Union College. Sigma Phi was also started on this campus.
Men without hair on their chests are more likely to get cirrhosis of the liver than men with hair.
Sitting too close to the TV will not ruin your eyesight.
The Going to the Sun Road in Glacier Park is considered one of the most scenic drives in America.
Gatorade was named for the University of Florida Gators where the drink was first developed.
For the 66% of American's who admit to reading in the bathroom, the preferred reading material is 'Reader's Digest'.
The Swiss flag is square.
The people of Salt Lake City consume more Jell-O per capita than any other city in the United States.
A common Labrador bites with 125 pounds of force.
Some of the objects visible in Hubble Space Telescope images are nearly four billion times fainter than the limits of human vision.
The amount of phosphorus  that a human body contains is enough to produce 20 thousand match heads.
If a car is travelling at 55 miles per hour it will travel 56 feet before the driver can shift his foot from the accelerator to the brake.
The native way to say I love you in Bavarian is I mog di narrisch gern.
The most populated city in the world is Tokyo, with 30 million residents.
Ninety-nine percent of pumpkins sold in the United States are for the sole purpose of decoration.
Naturalists use marshmallows to lure alligators out of swamps.
The eye is the second most complex organ you possess after the brain.
Rats destroy an estimated 1/3 of the world's food supply each year.
Neptune's year is 164.81 earth years.
Italy's North has warm summers and cool winters. Italy's South has hot summers and mild winters.
The native way to say I love you in Zulu is Mena tanda wena Ngiyakuthanda.
Over one million stray dogs live in the New York City metropolitan area.
New Mexican history has ranged from arrows to atoms and has embraced Indian, Spanish and Anglo cultures. Few states can claim such a distinctive past.
In 2005, workers at General Motors earned an average hourly wage of nearly $26, about 70% more than the average manufacturing wage.
The foot is the most common body part bitten by insects.
Richard and Carol Roble re-married each other 56 times
Earth is estimated to be 3-5 Billion Years old.
The Poison Arrow frog has enough poison to kill 2,200 people.
Lake Itasca, the source of the Mississippi River, was discovered and named by Henry R. Schoolcraft in 1832.
The male fetus is capable of attaining an erection during the last trimester.
The average person (from western culture) consumes 10 liters of alcohol per year.
L. Frank Baum, the author of the Wizard of Oz, lived in Chittenago. The city now has a yellow brick road and many other Oz-themed businesses, including an annual Munchkin parade.
Pet parrots can eat virtually any common 'people-food' except for chocolate and avocados. Both of these are highly toxic to the parrot and can be fatal.
Worcestershire Sauce is basically an Anchovy ketchup.
On August 3rd 1949 Basketball Association of America & National Basketball League merge to form the National Basketball Association.
Panthers are known as black leopards, as they are the same species of leopard. If looked at closely, black spots can be seen on a panther.
Elvis Presley made his first appearance on national television in 1956. He sang Blue Suede Shoes and Heartbreak Hotel on 'The Dorsey Brothers Show.'.
Some species of fish have voices!
Rice paper isn't made from rice but from a small tree which grows in Taiwan.
The last member of the famous Bonaparte family, Jerome Napoleon Bonaparte, died in 1945, of injuries sustained from tripping over his dog's leash.
Harrods have three private wells to supply their water!
Avocados have the highest calories of any fruit at 167 calories per hundred grams.
Elephants only sleep for two hours each day.
The metal with the highest melting point is tungsten, at 6,170 degrees Fahrenheit.
85% of women wear the wrong bra size.
The official beverage of Ohio is tomato juice.
The name Joshua is Hebrew for 'Jesus'.
The native way to say I love you in Lithuanian is Ash miliu tave.
One in every 4 Americans has appeared on television.
The largest cave in the world (the Sarawak Chamber in Malaysia) is 2,300 feet (701 meters) long, 980 feet (299 meters) wide, and more than 230 feet (70 meters) high.
Men commit suicide three times more frequently than women do. But women attempt suicide two to three times more often than men.
Mercury is the only planet whose orbit is coplanar with its equator.
The low rocky ridges, or ranges, of northern Minnesota that contain iron ore are located in the region known as the Superior Upland.
Hang on Sloopy is the official rock song of Ohio.
Coca-Cola contained Coca (whose active ingredient is cocaine) from 1885 to 1903.
Walt Disney had 64 Oscar nominations in total.
Abraham Lincoln was elected to Congress in 1846.
The Himalayas cover one-tenth of the Earth's surface.
Next to Rome, Milan is the second-largest city in Italy.
The symbol SPQR can be found on many ancient buildings in Rome. It stands for 'the senate and people of Rome'.
The longest word in the English language is pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconioses!
Whitewater Falls in Transylvania County is the highest waterfall in the eastern United States.
A mosquito's wings beat from 300 to 600 times per second.
In 2006, there were 398 million mobile (or cell) phones in China.
In ancient Egypt, priests plucked EVERY hair from their bodies, including their eyebrows and eyelashes.
The most common name in the world is Mohammed.
The highest paid CEO in 2004 was Terry Semel of Yahoo. He earned $230 million, or approximately $630,000 per day.
One in fourteen women in America is a natural blonde. Only one in sixteen men is.
Pretzels were originally invented for Christian Lent.
In Bahrain, a male gynecologist can only examine a woman's private parts through a mirror.
The women of Iceland earn two-thirds of their nation's university degrees.
Levan, Utah is 'navel' spelled backwards. It is so named because it is in the middle of Utah.
On August 3rd in 1492 Columbus sets sail from Palos, Spain for 'Indies'
The rings are huge yet tiny: the main rings could cover almost the entire distance between Earth and the Moon yet they are less than a kilometer (about half-a-mile) thick.
99% of people cannot lick their elbow.
Moist air holds heat better than dry air.
Ten years ago, only 500 people in China could ski. This year, an estimated 5,000,000 Chinese will visit ski resorts.
The U.S. city with the highest rate of lightning strikes per capita is Clearwater, Florida.
NASA's Compton Gamma Ray Observatory, launched in 1991 aboard the Space Shuttle Atlantis, is the heaviest spacecraft ever deployed by a Space Shuttle.
The sound of E.T. walking was made by someone squishing her hands in jelly.
Every vehicle produced by General Motors in the United States includes about $1,500 in health-care costs - typically more than the value of steel contained in the vehicle.
Morphine was given its name in 1803 by the discoverer, a 20 year old German pharmacist named Friedrich Saturner. He named it after Morpheus, the Greek god of dreams.
For every 230 cars that are made, 1 will be stolen.
During Prohibition, temperance activists hired a scholar to rewrite the Bible by removing all references to alcohol beverage.
Seismic waves move at different speeds in different rocks.
In Singapore, it is illegal to sell or own chewing gum.
A lightning bolt generates temperatures five times hotter than those found at the Sun's surface!
One pound of tea can make 300 cups of the beverage.
The inventor of Vaseline ate a spoonful of the stuff every morning!
Dirty snow melts faster than clean.
The Earth's average velocity orbiting the Sun is 107,220 km per hour.
The Earth gets 100 tons heavier every day due to falling space dust.
Pageant Models often smear Vaseline on their teeth so their lips won't stick when smiling.
It takes about a week to make a jelly bean.
An exocannibal eats only enemies. An indocannibal eats only friends.
Allman Brothers Band members Duane Allman and Berry Oakley were killed in separate motorcycle accidents within only three blocks and one year of each other.
The letter 'o' is the oldest letter. It has not changed in shape since its adoption in the Phoenician alphabet, circa 1,300 B.C.
BMW made the first jet engine.
An olive tree can live up to 1,500 years!
The word 'Machiavellian' is named after Niccolo Machiavelli, who was friends with Leonardo da Vinci.
King George I could not speak English!
Only 5 percent of the ocean floor has been mapped in as much detail as the surface of Mars.
88% of serial killers are male. 85% are caucasian. As children, they are typically abandoned by their fathers and raised by domineering mothers.
A gigantic sculpture of Crazy Horse, the famous Sioux chief, is being carved in the Black Hills. The project, begun in 1947, remains uncompleted.
The biggest bell in Asia is located in Panay Church in the Philippines.
Air-filled tyres were used on bicycles before they were used on motorcars.
The average company saves over $7,000 for each employee suggestion that is enacted!
The Genesee River is one of the few rivers in the world to flow South to North.
Nurses and doctors wash their hands between patients less than one-third of the time.
The Atlantic Ocean is saltier than the Pacific Ocean.
Mel Blanc (the voice of Bugs Bunny) was allergic to carrots!
A 'duffer' is Australian slang for a cattle thief.
The Nullarbor Plain of Australia covers 100,000 square miles (160,900 km) without a tree.
Napoleon had conquered Italy by the time he was twenty-six.
The skeleton of Jeremy Bentham is present at all important meetings of the University of London.
Most cockroaches eaten; Ken Edwards of England ate 36 cockroaches in one minute.
The Internet was initially called the 'Galactic network' in memos written by MIT's JCR Licklider in 1962.
Bela Lugosi was buried in his Dracula cape.
The citrus soda 7-UP was created in 1929; '7' was selected because the original containers were 7 ounces. 'UP' indicated the direction of the bubbles
The oldest child's toy in Britain is found by the archaeologists from the University of Bristol. It's at least 2,000 years old. There is some debate about whether the toy is a pig or hedgehog.
The oldest pig in the world lived to the age of 68.
Midgets and dwarfs almost always have normal-sized children, even if both parents are midgets or dwarfs.
Alaskan brown bears, world's largest meat-eating animals that live on land, can weigh as much as 1,700 pounds (771 kilograms).
Since 1896, the beginning of the modern Olympics, only Greece and Australia have participated in every Games.
In the Great Seal of the US the eagle grasps 13 arrows and an olive branch.
A supertanker can carry as much as 747,000 tons of oil.
90% of us depend on alarm clocks to wake us.
Actor Mark Wahlberg has a third nipple!
Because metal was scarce, the Oscars given out during World War II were made of wood.
To have your picture taken by the very first camera you would have had to sit still for 8 hours!
Jim Carrey voted in 2004 at the Beverly Hills City Hall. He had an assistant wait in line for him, however.
Two objects have struck the earth with enough force to destroy a whole city. Each object, one in 1908 and again in 1947, struck regions of Siberia. Not one human being was hurt either time.
1,525,000,000 miles of telephone wire are strung across the U.S.
Two phone books with their pages interlaced require more than 8000 pounds of pressure to separte.
The internet slang ABFL means 'a big fat lady'.
A newborn expels its own body weight in waste every 60 hours.
A poll of 3,000 Americans found that for 41 percent, the thing they're most afraid of is speaking before a group of people. 32 percent stated they were afraid of heights.
Turkey's often look up at the sky during a rainstorm. Unfortunately some have been known to drown as a result.
Windmills always turn anti-clockwise. Except for the windmills in Ireland!
If Manhattan had the same population density as Alaska, there would only be 15 people living there.
Theodore Roosevelt was the first American to win the Nobel Peace Prize (1906).
Human saliva has a boiling point three times that of regular water.
Italy is slightly larger than Arizona.
1 in 5 of the world's doctors are Russian.
NASA proposes to develop and to launch a roving long-range, long-duration science laboratory sept-Oct 2009 that will be a major leap in surface measurements and pave the way for a future sample return mission.
A catfish has approximately 100,000 taste buds.
Barbie's full name is Barbara Millicent Roberts.
Methane gas can often be seen bubbling up from the bottom of ponds. It is produced by the decomposition of dead plants and animals in the mud.
The Italian island of Sicily is famous for being home of the illicit Mafia criminal organization.
Cashew nut shells contain oil that is extremely irritating to human skin.
In the Netherlands, in 1634, a collector paid 1,000 pounds of cheese, four oxen, eight pigs, 12 sheep, a bed, and a suit of clothes for a single bulb of the Viceroy tulip.
Balsa wood is classified as a hard wood!
A tuna called the 'Blue Fin' can be sold for over $20,000 around the world.
The native way to say I love you in Romanian is Te iu besc.
Smartest dogs: 1) Scottish border collixe; 2) Poodle; 3) Golden retriever. Dumbest: Afghan hound.
A group of frogs is called an army.
Ants cannot chew their food, they move their jaws sideways, like scissors, to extract the juices from the food.
Flamingos are not naturally pink. They get their color from their food.
People with blue eyes are better able to see in the dark.
There once was a town named '6' in West Virginia.
All of David Letterman's suits are custom made - there are no creases in his suit trousers.
Bees can see ultraviolet light.
Every 45 seconds, a house catches on fire in the United States.
Independence Hall and the Liberty Bell belong today to the city of Philadelphia, which purchased the property for $70,000 from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1816.
Wilhelm Rontgen won the first Nobel Prize for physics for discovering X-rays in 1895.
On August 3rd 1963 Allan Sherman releases 'Hello Mudda, Hello Fadda'.
Dallas Fort Worth International Airport provides nonstop services to 128 domestic and 37 international destinations.
The native way to say I love you in Dutch is Ik hou van jou.
Diet Pepsi was originally called Patio Diet Cola.
The mile is Latin for 1,000. The number of paces it took the average Roman!
The surface of hot water freezes faster than cold water but the rest of the water will remain liquid longer than in a cold sample.
When a flea jumps, the rate of acceleration is 20 times that of the space shuttle during launch.
Harrods in Britain installed the first escalator in 1878.
Clocks made before 1687 had only one hand - and hour hand.
A sneeze can travel as fast as 100 miles per hour.
Millie the White House dog earned more than 4 times as much as President Bush in 1991.
Seventy percent of the dust in your home consists of shed human skin.
Most lipstick have fish scales.
Each kidney contains 1 million individual filters. They filter an average of around 1.3 litres (2.2 pints) of blood per minute and expel up to 1.4 litres (2.5 pints) a day of urine.
0.7% of Americans are currently in prison. Wow!
Frogs are the symbols of good luck in Japan.
The Lied Jungle located in Omaha is the world's largest indoor rain forest.
In India, pickled ginger, minced mutton, and a cottage cheese like substances are popular pizza toppings.
The most dangerous animal in the world is the common housefly. Because of their habits of visiting animal waste, they transmit more diseases than any other animal.
Bacteria do not contain a nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles and are therefore classed as prokaryotes.
The Jordanian city Amman was once called Philadelphia.
Tomato Ketchup was once used as medicine in the United States. It was sold as 'Dr. Miles Compound Extract of Tomato'.
Members of the armed forces and the police cannot vote in the Dominican Republic.
There has only been one satellite destroyed by a meteor, it was the European Space Agency's Olympus in 1993.
Nebraska became one of the first states to provide the entire state with educational television in 1963.
A hardboiled egg will spin. An uncooked or softboiled egg will not.
Karoke means 'empty orchestra' in Japanese.
CBS's fine for Janet Jackson's 'wardrobe malfunction' in the 2004 Super Bowl show was $550,000. This could be paid with only 7.5 seconds of commercial time during the same Super Bowl telecast.
There are 701 types of pure breed dogs.
Drew Carey once worked at a Denny's.
George Harrison, with 'My Sweet Lord,' was the first Beatle to have a Number 1 hit single following the group's breakup.
The sewing machine was patented on July 17, 1790.
Cars were first made with ignition keys in 1949.
McKinney Avenue Transit Authority (McKinney Avenue Trolley) is the largest public transit system utilizing volunteers in North America.
The 1st winner of the Academy Award for best picture, and the only silent film to achieve that honor, was the 1927 film, 'Wings.'.
Over 75% of Italy is mountainous or hilly.
Armadillos, opossums, and sloth's spend about 80% of their lives sleeping.
The flushing toilet was invented in 1596, not by Thomas Crapper as most people think, but by Sir John Harington.
The North Atlantic gets 1 inch wider every year.
The average person flexes the joints in their fingers 24 million times during a lifetime.
During an eclipse, the ancient Chinese would make extremely loud noises by banging on drums or pots to scare the dragon away.
At General Motors, the cost of health care for employees now exceeds the cost of steel.
A baby in Florida was named: Truewilllaughinglifebuckyboomermanifestdestiny. His middle name is George James.
Dominoes may not be played on Sunday in Alabama.
Spotted skunks do handstands before they spray.
Roses may be red, but violets are indeed violet.
The word 'maverick' came into use after Samuel Maverick, a Texan refused to brand his cattle.
A new book is published every 13 minutes in America.
The longest hole on a golf course is the sixth hole at the Koolan Island Course in Australia. The hole measures 860 yards.
The three words in the English language with the letters 'uu' are: vacuum, residuum and continuum.
A Giraffe has the same number of bones in its neck as a man.
Jean -Claude Van Damme learned to speak English by watching the cartoon 'The Flintstones'.
In 1940 the United States Army Corps of Engineers completed Fort Peck, one of the largest earthfill dams in the world.
85,000,000 tons of paper are used each year in the U.S.
All monkeys have tails.
More than 2500 left handed people are killed every year from using right handed products.
All dogs, regardless of breed, are direct descendants of wolves and technically of the same species.
Before the 1900 century boot makers were primarily from Britain or Germany.
At any one time, there are 100 million phone conversations going on in the United States.
Henry Ford was Charles Lindbergh's first passenger in the Spirit of St. Louis.
The pound sign (#) is called an octothorpe.
Every person has a unique tongue print.
Americans write approximately 50 billion checks a year making it the second most frequent payment method used after cash
Peanuts are one of the ingredients in dynamite.
Istanbul, Turkey is the only city in the world located on two continents.
The Palace of Governors in Santa Fe is the oldest Government Building in the United States.
Your stomach has to produce a new layer of mucus every two weeks or it will digest itself.
When the 'lead flies' in the Chinese hip-hop turf wars, it's because the artists heaving toys at each other.
Holland has the densest population per square mile of any nation in the world.
Georgia is the nations number one producer of peanuts, pecans, and peaches.
Charles Darwin was often seasick during his boat-travel.
Rosewood Mansion on Turtle Creek is the only hotel in Texas with a Mobil Five-Star and AAA Five-Diamond rating for both the hotel facility and restaurant.
In playing poker, there is one chance in 500 of drawing a flush.
In Japan the art of paper folding is called Origami.
In Papua New Guinea there are villages within five miles of each other that speak different languages.
Northwest Airlines based out of Twin Cities, was the first major airline to ban smoking on international flights.
Cattle branding began in Connecticut when farmers were required by law to mark all of their pigs.
Jacksonville, Florida, has the largest total area of any city in the United States.
It is illegal NOT to smile in Pocatello, Idaho!
You'll eat about 35,000 cookies in your lifetime.
The mongoose was barred live entry into the U.S. in 1902.
In 1976, the 10 billionth gallon of Coca-Cola syrup was produced.
There are more germs in the human mouth than in the anus.
Bill Clinton is the most widely traveled president in U.S. history.
Talking on the telephone is the leading cause of lightning injuries inside the home.
Sweden was the first country in the world to keep population statistics.
Statue of Liberty: Height of the Statue from her heel to the top of her head is 111 feet, 6 inches.
There are only four words in the common English language that end in -dous: tremendous, horrendous, stupendous, and hazardous.
A mosquito can smell the carbon dioxide you exhale from about 60 to 75 feet away.
According to The Economist magazine, the first truly electronic bank on the Internet, called First Virtual Holdings, was opened by Lee Stein in 1994.
While sleeping, one man in eight snores, and one in ten grinds his teeth.
Are you a chicken when it comes to chickens? Then you have alektorophobia.
A giraffe has a 20-inch tongue.
The first toilet ever seen on television was on 'Leave It to Beaver'.
The Wizard of Oz was a Broadway musical 37 years before the MGM movie version was made. It had 293 performances and then went on a tour that lasted 9 years.
The U.S. has the highest dog population in the world. France has the second highest.
Hummingbirds eat about every ten minutes, slurping down twice their body weight in nectar every day.
According to U.S. laws, a beer commercial can never show a person actually drinking beer.
The popular card game bridge was invented in Turkey.
There are no clocks in Las Vegas gambling casinos.
3,400,000 Americans are considered 'Extreme Commuters'. These people commute over 90 minutes round trip every day to work.
John F. Kennedy was buried without his brain after it was lost during the autopsy!
Out of 20,000 species of bees, only 4 make honey.
It takes twelve years of corn to make a tablespoon of corn oil.
Approximately 70 percent of the earth is covered by water. Only 1 percent of this water is drinkable.
A capon is a castrated rooster.
Malaysians protect their babies from disease by bathing them in beer.
The restored boyhood home of band leader Lawrence Welk stands in Strasburg.
84% of a raw apple is water.
The first domain name ever registered was Symbolics.com.
You can tell if a skunk is about if you smell only .000000000000071 ounce of its spray.
In Internet terminology, a demo is a non-interactive multimedia presentation, the computer world's equivalent of a music video.
Hawaii is moving toward Japan 4 inches every year.
Julius Caesar, Alexander the Great, and Dostoyevsky were all epileptics.
Five years ago, 60% of all retail purchases were made with cash or check. Now it's 50%. By 2010, 39% of purchases will be made by cash or check.
If a child burps during a church service in Omaha, Nebraska his or her parents may be arrested.
On average people fear spiders more than death.
Fifteen people are known to have been crushed to death tilting vending machines towards them in the hope of a free can of soda.
With two forks and a charge, a pickle will emit light.
No one knows where Mozart is buried.
Respiratory Disease is China's leading cause of death.
As of 2006, for every 10 successful attempts to climb Mount Everest there is one fatality.
The Population of the world can live within the state boundaries of Texas.
The colder the room you sleep in, the better the chances are that you'll have a bad dream.
America once issued a 5-cent bill.
The Virginia opossum has a gestation period of only 12-13 days.
It is illegal to be a prostitute in Siena, Italy, if your name is Mary.
Sharon Stone was the first Star Search spokes model.
A cough releases an explosive charge of air that moves at speeds up to 60 mph.
A hen must eat about 4 pounds to produce 12 eggs.
In 1987 American Airlines saved $40,000 by eliminating one olive from its First Class salads.
An ant's sense of smell is as good as a Dog's.
Abraham Lincoln was the only U.S. president to hold a patent. It was for an invention to buoy boats over shallow rivers.
People share their birthday with at least 9 million other people in the world.
Sunlight can penetrate clean ocean water to a depth of 240 feet.
Saint Valentine is buried in Dublin under the altar of Whitefriars Church in Dublin.
Paper was invented early in the second century by Chinese eunuch.
Sunlight takes about 8 minutes & 20 seconds to reach the Earth at 186,282 miles/sec (299,792 Km/sec).
The New York Times reports that in February 2004, 62% of all e-mail was spam.
The venom of a small scorpion is much more toxic than the venom of a large scorpion.
During a severe windstorm or rainstorm the Empire State Building may sway several feet to either side.
The first jukebox in the world was located in San Francisco in 1899.
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance.
A.D. (anno domini) is the Latin word for in the year of the Lord.
Andrew Wiles IQ Score 170.
Nearly all but two breeds of dogs have pink tongues. The two exceptions? The Chow Chow and the Shar-pei, both with black tongues.
Diamonds mined in Brazil are harder than those found in Africa.
A fall of 30 feet can be survived by most cats.
Some lions mate over 50 times a day.
Owls swallow their prey whole because they have no teeth. After 12 hours they cough up the feathers, bones, and fur in a shape of a football pellet.
If you eat a bar of chocolate every day for 36,500 days, you'll live to be 100 years old.
Tapeworms range in size from about 0.04 inch to more than 50 feet in length.
If you could drive to the Sun at 55 miles per hour it would take about 193 years
When Alexander Graham Bell passed away in 1922, every telephone served by the Bell system in the USA and Canada was silent for one minute.
Actor Greg Kennear worked on the advertising campaign for the movie Space Sluts in the Slammer.
A day on the planet Mercury is twice as long as its year.
About 400 different kinds of microbes live on and in the human body.
In Arizona, It is unlawful to refuse a person a glass of water.
In 39 of the 50 U.S. states, the travel industry is the largest single employer.
Actress Kate Winslet, at age 11, appeared in a television cereal commercial frolicking with a honey monster.
Scorpions can be killed by pouring vinegar over them.
Humphrey Bogart NEVER said 'Play it again, Sam' in Casablanca.
As of July 2005, the smallest country in terms of population was Pitcairn Islands with 45 inhabitants!
In Peru a single bush may contain more ant species than in the British Isles.
If you toss a penny 10,000 times, it will not be heads 5,000 times, but more like 4,950. The heads picture weighs more, so it ends up on the bottom.
A chicken who just lost its head can run the length of a football field before dropping dead.
The most debated disaster, which occurred in Podkamenaya, Tunguska River in Russia on June 30th 1908 in the 20th century, presumably an explosion of a comet entering atmosphere, however kept sometimes as explosion of an UFO.
From the 1500's to the 1700's, tobacco was prescribed by doctors to treat a variety of ailments including headaches, toothaches, arthritis and bad breath.
Pumpkins were once recommended for removing freckles.
Texas is second in size only to Alaska.
Scientists have discovered that copper pollution of the atmosphere occurred about 2500 years ago. This was discovered by analyzing ice cores from Greenland. The pollution was attributed to the Romans who used copper for military purposes and to produce coins.
The day after President George W. Bush was reelected, Canada's main immigration website had 115,000 visitors. Before Bush's re-election, this site averaged about 20,000 visitors each day.
The drive-through line on opening day at the McDonald's restaurant in Kuwait City, Kuwait was at times seven miles long.
The Moon is actually moving away from Earth at a rate of 1.5 inches per year.
The red bumps on a turkey's head are called 'caruncles'.
A snail can have about 25,000 teeth.
The Roman Catholic Church is based in Italy.
Mexican Jumping Beans jump because of moth larvae inside them.
Democratic Italy is governed by a President who appoints the Prime Minister (largely a figure-head).
The English language uses many idioms in all forms of communication whether it be written, oral, casual or formal.
Iceland was the first country to legalize abortion in 1935.
Among the many attractions of Boston is the Old South Meeting House, and the Old North Church, where lanterns signaled the start of Paul Revere's ride.
Women burn fat more slowly than men, by a rate of about 50 calories a day.
The world's longest game of Monopoly lasted more than 660 hours.
The Idiom 'to take the plunge' means take a decisive step after thinking about it for a long time.
On a Canadian two dollar bill, the flag flying over the Parliament Building is an American flag.
The shortest English word that contains the letters A, B, C, D, E, and F is 'feedback'.
Only full-grown male crickets can chirp.
The world's termites outweigh the world's humans 10 to 1!
On August 3rd 1990 Radio Kuwait goes off the air, due to the Iraqi invasion.
An apple is covered with a thin layer of wax.
The 57 on Heinz ketchup bottle represents the varieties of pickles the company once had.
Some butterflies have ears on their wings.
A dollar bill is exactly six inches long.
Americans use an average of about eight batteries a year per person.
Of the more than $50 billion worth of diet products sold every year, almost $20 billion are spent on imitation fats and sugar substitutes.
Over 4.6 million Whopper sandwiches are sold at Burger King every day!
Fidgeting can burn about 350 calories a day.
In ancient China, people committed suicide by eating a pound of salt.
The University of Alaska stretches over 4 time zones.
Band-Aid bandages first appeared on the market in 1921, however, the little red string that is used to open the package did not get added until 1940.
The Pillsbury Bake-off has been held every year since 1948.
The Nile catfish swim upside down.
The most productive day of the workweek is Tuesday.
The first CD pressed in the US was Bruce Springsteen's 'Born in the USA'.
Before Rome became a republic and an empire, it had seven kings.
When honey is swallowed, it enters the blood stream within a period of 20 minutes.
Males produce one thousand sperm cells each second - 86 million each day.
The Italian language evolved from the Latin of the Roman Empire.
The name 'Illinois' comes from a Native American word meaning 'tribe of superior men'.
The Boeing 747 is capable of flying upside-down if it weren't for the fact that the wings would shear off when trying to roll it over.
Goldfish have the memory span of about 3-5 seconds.
In a recent survey, Americans revealed that banana was their favorite smell.
Clarence Crane in Cleveland invented Life Savers in 1912.
Comedian/actor Billy Crystal portrayed Jodie Dallas, the first openly gay main character on network television on ABC's Soap, which aired from 1977 to 1981.
The Cincinnati Red Stockings became the first professional baseball team in 1869.
An adulterous Greek male was sometimes punished by the removal of his pubic hair and the insertion of a large radish into his rectum.
The vocabulary of the average person consists of 5,000 to 6,000 words.
It is possible to drown and not die. Technically the term 'drowning' refers to the process of taking water into the lungs, not to death caused by that process.
The Himalayan gogi berry contains, weight for weight, more iron than steak, more beta carotene than carrots, more vitamin C than oranges.
No species of wild plant produces a flower or blossom that is absolutely black, and so far, none has been developed artificially.
Annie Lennox holds the record for the most Brit awards (8).
Statue of Liberty: Total weight of the Statue of Liberty is 225 tons (or 450,000 pounds).
Orthodox rabbis warned that New York City drinking water might not be kosher; it contains harmless micro-organisms that are technically shellfish.
Beavers can swim half a mile underwater on one gulp of air.
The term Cop comes from Constable on Patrol, which is a term used in England.
An individual would choose a birthstone (gemstone) based on the particular calendar months of the year that he/she is born.
In the year 2000, Pope John Paul II was named an Honorary Harlem Globetrotter!
A fireplace is called a 'mantelpiece' because at one time people hung their coats (or 'mantles') over the fireplace to dry them.
The ears of a cricket are located on the front legs, just below the knee.
You cannot sneeze with your eyes open.
Aardvarks are allergic to radishes, but only during summer months.
The pancreas produces Insulin.
Truck driving is the most dangerous occupation by accidental deaths (799 in 2001).
The DART rail system is one of the nation's fastest growing light rail lines.
Snickers is the most popular candy.
A honeybee can fly at fifteen miles per hour.
Eugene was the first city to have one-way streets, and is quoted by 'Bicycling Magazine' as one of the top ten cycling communities in the United States.
Humans has about five million hairs on the whole body.
Picasso was a playboy.
Austria was the first country to use postcards.
Almonds and pistachios are the only nuts mentioned in the Bible.
About 70 percent of your body weight is water.
A Duke is the highest rank you can achieve without being a king or a prince.
In 2004, The Japanese Ice Cream Association promoted 'raw horse flesh' ice cream in hopes that it would boost the popularity of ice cream!
Burt Reynolds is a Cherokee Indian.
Before 1896 India was the only diamonds producing country in the world.
The Idiom 'tread water' means someone who is treading water is not doing anything to make progress.
Delaware was the first state to ratify the United States constitution. It did so on December 7, 1787.
People in China and Japan die disproportionately on the 4th of each month because the words death and four sound alike, and they are represented by the same symbol.
Cowboys did sing to their cattle at night.
The cost of prescription drugs in the US has increased on average by 8.3% annually since 1994. The average rate of inflation during this time period was only about 2.5%.
The Simpsons is the longest running animated series on TV.
China has more English speakers than the United States.
During the 1860s, George Leclanche developed the dry-cell battery, the basis for modern batteries.
Australia's Great Barrier Reef is 1,250 miles long!
Almost all varieties of breakfast cereals are made of grass.
Each day, up to 150 species of life become extinct.
During the making of the movie Fight Club, actor Brad Pitt chipped his tooth. However, he did not get his tooth capped until after the movie was done filming as he thought it would look better chipped for his character.
In the early 70s, Richard Gere played Danny Zuko in a London production of Grease.
Yo-yos were used as weapons by warriors in the Philippines in the 16th century.
The most popular requested boat name is 'Obsession'.
Leonardo DiCaprio got his first 'onscreen kiss' from a man!
The Idiom 'the tip of the iceberg' means small but evident part of a much larger problem.
Forty-one percent of English women have punched or kicked their partners, according to a study.
The cigarette lighter was invented before the match.
Pogonophobia: The fear of beards.
Coastal North Carolina was the scene of the first attempt to colonize America by English-speaking.
Titanic was built in Belfast.
Sharkskin has tiny tooth-like scales all over.
Every year a huge icehotel of about 4 000 m2 is built in the village Jukkasjaervi in Sweden.
The expression 'three dog night' originated with the Eskimos and means a very cold night - so cold that you have to bed down with three dogs to keep warm.
Wedding cake was originally thrown at the bride and groom, instead of eaten by them.
Owls have eyeballs that are tubular in shape, because of this, they cannot move their eyes.
All porcupines float in water.
10% of human dry weight comes from bacteria.
A Nigerian woman was caught entering the UK with 104 kg of snails in her baggage.
'Jedi' is an official religion, with over 70,000 followers, in Australia.
As a child, Jim Carrey wore tap shoes to bed just in case his parents needed cheering up in the middle of the night.
Anderson Dam is known for its blue-ribbon fly-fishing.
By 3,000 B.C. there were at least six different types of beer in Egypt.
If you rearrange the words 'Debit card' you can spell 'Bad Credit'
The Angel Falls in Venezuela are nearly 20 times taller than Niagara Falls.
Americans eat so much cereal each year that a chain of empty boxes would stretch all the way to the Moon and back to Earth.
Plastic lawn flamingos outnumber real flamingos in the U.S.A.
A cat can run about 20 kilometers per hour (12 miles per hour) when it grows up. This one is going nowhere today - it is too lazy !.
Two mouths full of cowbane, a member of the carrot family, is enough to kill you.
Vikings used the skulls of their enemies as drinking vessels.
Walt Disney World generates about 120,000 pounds of garbage every day.
Actress Brooke Shields' grandfather, Francis X, was a tennis champion.
India has more post offices than any other country.
The name of the Internet's most popular directory, is an acronym. According to the company, the name 'Yahoo' stands for 'Yet Another Hierarchical Officious Oracle'.
The average ice berg weighs 20,000,000 tons!
What word can you take the first letter of, put it as the last letter, and make it the past tence of the original word? Answer: Eat (ate).
A can of SPAM is opened every 4 seconds.
On 3rd in 1852 1st intercollegiate rowing race, Harvard beats Yale by 4 lengths.
0.3% of all road accidents in Canada involve a Moose.
In England, the Speaker of the House is not allowed to speak.
The Mona Lisa used to hang on the wall of Napoleon's bedroom.
Every time you lick a stamp, you're consuming 1/10 of a calorie.
The Doberman breed was created in the 1860's by Louis Doberman, a German tax-collector who created the dog to protect him while he worked.
An individual blood cell takes about 60 seconds to make a complete circuit of the body.
22 percent of twins are left-handed? In the non-twin population the number is just under 10 percent.
Hernando de Soto, a Spanish explorer, discovered the Mississippi River in1540. Spain did not relinquish its claims on the Mississippi region until 1798.
Forty-six US federal agencies have officers with the authority to carry firearms and arrest people.
In Arizona, donkeys cannot sleep in bathtubs.
Gabriel Fahrenheit invented the mercury thermometer.
Anise is the scent on the artificial rabbit that is used in greyhound races.
A cat lover is an ailurophile, while a cat hater is an ailurophobe.
The adult online industry in the US has annual sales of at least $1 billion , and as many as 10 million paying subscribers.
Google is actually the common name for a number with a million zeros.
When Krakatoa erupted in 1883, its force was so great it could be heard 4,800 kilometres away in Australia.
The green stuff on the occasional freak potato chip is chlorophyll.
Women's hearts beat faster than men's.
Only in the Metrodome has there been a Super Bowl, a World Series and a NCAA Final Four Basketball Championship.
George Washington Carver invented peanut butter.
People descended from the Scottish clan of Kerr are more likely to be left handed than any other ancestrial group.
The internet slang AFAICS means 'as far as I can see'.
Darwin wanted to be a doctor, but he couldn't stand the sight of blood.
US Secret Service sniffer dogs are put up in five-star hotels during overseas presidential visits.
Typhlobasia is the practice of closing one's eyes when kissing.
Italy has over 3,000 museums.
When he was only 13, Johnny Depp lost his virginity to a girl slightly older than him.
The leading cause of on-the-job deaths in workplaces in America is homicide.
Canada is the only country not to win a gold medal in the summer Olympic games while hosting.
A car operates at maximum economy, gas-wise, at speeds between 25 and 35 miles per hour.
The official state song of Georgia since 1922 has been 'Georgia on My Mind'.
Cody Wyoming is named after William 'Buffalo Bill' Cody.
City with the most Rolls Royces per capita: Hong Kong.
Sound travels about 4 times faster in water than in air.
One in every 9000 people is an albino.
A shrimp's heart is in their head.
Baruch Spinoza IQ Score 175.
Canadian actress Joanna Gleason the daughter of Monty Hall.
It was a Swede in 1892 who invented the adjustable spanner.
Each day in the US, animal shelters are forced to destroy 30,000 dogs and cats.
The Idiom 'come hell or high water' means if you say you will do something come hell or high water, you mean you are determined to do it even if it is difficult.
Pioneer Day, July 24, commemorates the first permanent settlement of Utah on July 24, 1847, by Brigham Young and his Mormon pioneers.
Elvis had a twin brother named Garon, who died at birth, which is why Elvis middle name was Aron.
Little more than half of the people living in the U.S. would rather fold, than wad their toilet paper.
In 1902, Dr. Hill performed the first open heart surgery in the Western Hemisphere, by suturing a stab wound in a young boy's heart. The surgery occurred in Montgomery.
Actor Richard Gere was considered to play the role of John McClane in the movie 'Die Hard'. Instead, Bruce Willis played the part.
1,800 cigarettes are smoked per person each year in China.
Every U.S. president with a beard has been a Republican.
The first credit card was issued by American Express in 1951.
More than 1,000 different languages are spoken on the continent of Africa.
The martial arts are paid homage to by the Chinese rap group The Chuck Norris Clan.
A 1,200-pound horse eats about seven times its own weight each year.
American football originate from English rugby in the early part of 1800. The first football was round. American students played a similar game called allown.
Scientists have determined that fungi are more closely related to human beings and animals than to other plants.
In Flemish, Schipperke translates to 'Little Captain'.
Americans trow away 4.4 pounds of trash each day per person.
We are about 1 cm taller in the morning than in the evening. Layers of cartilage in the joints gets compressed during the day.
The average person spends three years of his or her life on a toilet.
Benjamin Netanyahu IQ Score 180.
Pierce Brosnan's first appearance as James Bond was in 1995 Golden Eye.
Nevada is the driest state in the U.S.. Each year it averages 7.5 inches (19 cm) of rain.
The U.S. Post Office handles 43 percent of the world's mail.
To human taste buds, Zima is virtually indistinguishable from zebra urine.
The Idiom 'the last straw (that broke the camel's back)' means additional event that makes a situation intolerable. In other words, it is saying one has reached the limit of his/her patience in a present situation.
The United States consumes 25% of all the world's energy.
Americans alone consume more than nine pounds of pickles per person each year.
Happy Birthday (the song) is copyrighted.
Bruneau Dunes State Park has the tallest single structured sand dune in North America.
Japanese bowing carries different meanings at different angles.
Mafia in Old Arabic means 'sanctuary'.
Oklahoma's Cimarron county is bordered by more states than any other U.S. county: Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, Colorado and Kansas.
Everyone has thirty-two teeth.
By some unknown means, an iguana can end its own life.
Lucille Ball, the long running star of the popular television show, I Love Lucy, wasn't a natural redhead. Originally she was a brunette
Humans have 46 chromosomes, peas have 14 and crayfish have 200.
More than 100 descendants of Johann Sebastian Bach have been cathedral organists.
Over 1,000 birds a year die from smashing into windows.
Manchester United's nickname is The Red Devils.
Actor Richard Gere attended the University of Massachusetts on a scholarship for gymnastics.
In 2006, the U.S. was the largest Internet market in the world with 182 million users. China was second with 134 million users.
A record early season snowstorm struck the Central High Plains Region. The storm left up to nineteen inches of snow along the Colorado Front Range, and as much as a foot of snow in the High Plains Region.
Halle Berry's stunt double, in the movie 'Cat Woman' was in fact a man.
Half of all identity thieves are either relatives, friends, or neighbors of their victims.
40% of all people who come to a party in your home snoop in your medicine cabinet.
Georgia's state motto is 'Wisdom, Justice and Moderation'.
There are more than 10 million bricks in the Empire State Building.
The native way to say I love you in Persian is Tora dost daram.
Costco is the largest wine retailer in the United States. Annual wine sales are about $700 million.
Dueling is legal in Paraguay, as long as both parties are registered blood donors.
Prairie dogs are not dogs. A prairie dog is a kind of rodent.
The Bureau of Standards says that the electron is the fastest thing in the world.
Squirrels can't remember where they hide half of their nuts.
The Navajo Reservation, the nation's largest reservation, lies primarily in Arizona and extends into Utah and New Mexico.
35% give to charity at least once a month.
The doorbell was invented in 1831.
In Takshashila, 700BC, the first university was established.
A deployed air bag adds as much as $2,000 to the cost of repairing a vehicle. That's enough for insurance companies to often declare the car 'totaled'.
The lucky numbers of the dragon is: 3, 4, 5, 6, 15, 21, 34, 35, 36 & 45
It is forbidden for aircraft to fly over the Taj Mahal.
Americans tops the world in plastic surgery. Mexico comes in second place.
Yellowstone National Park in southern Montana and northern Wyoming was the first national park in the nation.
82% of Americans made a purchase at Wal-Mart in 2002.
Some toothpastes and deodorants contain the same chemicals found in antifreeze.
America's first nudist organization was founded in 1929, by 3 men.
If left alone, 70% of birthmarks gradually fade away.
India has health laughing clubs where people get together and laugh.
The IRS would need at least 15 3/4 miles of shelves to store the tax forms they receive each year.
In Disney's Fantasia, the Sorcerer's name is Yensid, which is Disney spelled backward.
A raisin dropped in a glass of fresh champagne will bounce up and down continuously from the bottom of the glass to the top.
The lucky numbers of the sheep is: 3, 4, 5, 12, 34, 45 & 54
In the West the most popular male names are James and John. The most popular female name is Mary.
The native way to say I love you in Danish is Jeg elsker dig.
4,000 people are injured by teapots each year.
In 1985, a four year old Alicia Keys appeared on The Cosby Show as one of the guests at Rudy's slumber party.
The Nobel Peace Prize medal depicts 3 naked men with their hands on each others shoulders.
The most powerful laser in the world, the Nova laser at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, CA, USA, generates a pulse of energy equal to 100,000,000,000,000 watts of power for .000000001 second to a target the size of a grain of sand.
The ice cream cone is an Italian invention.
Austin High School in Texas has removed candy from its vending machines. Now some enterprising students are earning $200 per week dealing in black market candy.
The Starbucks at the highest elevation is on Main Street in Breckenridge, Colorado.
By law, employees do not have to wash hands after sneezing.
There is more pigment in brown eyes than in blue eyes.
The Olympic flag's colors are always red, black, blue, green and yellow rings on a field of white. This is because at least one of those colors appears on the flag of every nation on the planet.
A tuna fish can swim 100 miles in a single day!
Urban birds have developed a short, fast 'rap style' of singing, different from their rural counterparts.
When Scott Paper Company first started manufacturing toilet paper they did not put their name on the product because of embarrassment.
London Underground has several abandoned stations.
Anthonis Dyck IQ Score 155.
First four countries to have television: England, the U.S., the U.S.S.R., and Brazil.
Bangkok is called the City of Angels as Los Angeles.
About one-tenth of the earth's surface is permanently covered with ice.
Wild turkeys can run at speeds of up to 25 miles per hour.
An elephant trunk has no bone but 40,000 muscles.
Before the Europeans and other settlers came to America there was about 60 million buffalos. Today there are about 150,000 buffalos left.
Hershey is considered the Chocolate Capital of the United States.
Spider monkeys like banana daiquiris.
Octopuses have 3 hearts.
Snoring comes from turbulent air flow during the act of respiring through the open mouth so that the currents of inspired and expired air cause the tissues of the nose and throat to vibrate and give rise to snoring. This happens involuntarily.
Newton was an Alchemist.
In 1882 the first hydroelectric plant in the United States was built at Fox River.
The first bathrooms is said to have been built in India about 4500 years ago.
Actor John Wayne made more than 200 movies.
The color of a chile is no indication of its spiciness, but size usually is - the smaller the pepper, the hotter it is.
It takes 100 pounds of rain water to produce a single pound of food from the earth.
In France, a five year old child can buy an alcoholic drink in a bar.
Nearly 91% of all senior citizens rely on prescription drugs on a regular basis.
An etiquette writer of the 1840's advised, 'Ladies may wipe their lips on the tablecloth, but not blow their noses on it'.
Optical fibre was invented in 1966 by two British scientists called Charles Kao and George Hockham working for the British company Standard Telecommunication.
The longest flight by a paper aircraft indoors is 20.9 seconds.
The universally popular Hershey bar was used overseas during World War II as currency.
The airplane Buddy Holly died in was a Beech Bonanza.
A sneeze travels out your mouth at over 100 m.p.h.
Each card in a deck represents a king from history: Spades- King David, Hearts- Charlemagne, Clubs-Alexander the Great, Diamonds- Julius Caesar.
The Moon does not influence earthquakes.
It is possible to lead a cow upstairs but not downstairs.
A dwarf star is so dense that it would take 8 men to lift a teaspoon full of its matter.
The longest river in Italy is the Po.
The Russian Imperial Necklace has been loaned out by Joseff jewelers of Hollywood for 1,215 different feature films.
Statue of Liberty: The face on the Statue of Liberty measures more than 8 feet tall.
The United States spends more money on its military than the next 13 countries on the list combined!
The acid in your stomach is strong enough to dissolve razor blades.
The leg muscles of a locust are about 1000 times more powerful than an equal weight of human muscle.
China has 100 million Internet users, second to the US's 135 million users.
The native way to say I love you in Norwegian is Jeg elsker deg (Bokmaal )/ Eg elskar deg (Nynorsk).
Americans will spend more on cat food this year than baby food.
Annually, the amount of garbage that is dumped in the world's oceans is three times the weight of fish that is caught from the oceans.
The full name of Bangkok is the longest place name in the world and recorded in the Guinness book of records, 163 letters.
Jamaica has the most churches per square mile than any other country in the world.
One of the earliest constellations to be recognized was Auriga, The Chartioteer.
China has about $1 trillion in personal savings and a savings rate of close to 50%. The US has about $158 billion in personal savings and an average savings rate of only about 2%.
The Badlands of South Dakota, a region of barren ravines and cliffs, were created by volcanic action as well as by wind and water erosion.
The Hollywood sign was first erected in 1923. Conceived as a real estate ad, it originally read Hollywoodland. The sign stands 50 feet tall, stretches 450 feet across, weighs 450,000 pounds.
The Andes, which runs more than 4,900 miles, is the longest mountain range in the world.
Even though it is widely attributed to him Shakespeare never actually used the word 'gadzooks'.
The lucky numbers of the dog is: 1, 4, 5, 9, 10, 14, 19, 28, 30, 41, 45 & 54
The Idiom 'keep your head above water' means to have just enough money to live or to continue a business.
If you stretch a standard Slinky out flat it measures 87 feet long.
It has been said that cowboys wore blue jeans to keep the rattlers away. The rattle snake dont like the indigo color.
The fertility rate in states that voted for George Bush is 12% higher than states that favored John Kerry.
The top 8 most developed countries all speak Germanic languages. Every such country is in the top 20.
Some breeds of chickens lay colored eggs!
Mars Climate Orbiter, designed to function as an interplanetary weather satellite, was lost on arrival at the planet.
James Bond is also known as Mr. Kiss-Kiss-Bang-Bang.
1/3 of us don't wear seat belts.
Fort Lauderdale is known as the Venice of America because the city has 185 miles of local waterways.
Senegalese women spend an average of 17.5 hours a week just collecting water.
Don't try to outrun the police in Lazio (Rome's province) some of the officers drive a Lamborghini.
Actor Bill Murray doesn't have a publicist or an agent.
On EBay, there are an average of $680 worth of transactions each second.
On August the 3rd 1953 Frank Blair became news anchor of the Today Show.
19th century tooth powder often contained porcelain, smashed coral or cuttlefish bone.
In English, 'four' is the only digit that has the same number of letters as its value.
What will you find when you shave the striped fur off of a tiger? Striped skin.
If you rearrange the words 'Admirer' you can spell 'Married'
A bird's heart beats 400 times per minute while resting and up to 1000 beats per minute while flying.
Parrots, most famous of all talking birds, rarely acquire a vocabulary of more than twenty words, however Tymhoney Greys and African Greys have been know to carry vocabularies in excess of 100 words.
Flying from London to New York by Concord, due to the time zones crossed, you can arrive 2 hours before you leave.
The mother of the boy Michael Jackson is accused of abusing is named 'Janet Jackson'.
The entire town of Capena, Italy (including children as young as 2 years old) lights up cigarettes each year in honor of St. Anthony's Day. This tradition is centuries old.
Scorpions glow under UV-light.
Bubbles in champagne were seen by early wine makers as a highly undesirable defect, one that should be prevented.
Every time you sneeze some of your brain cells die.
CBS' 'Walker: Texas Ranger' and Fox's 'Prison Break' were filmed in Dallas.
In 1898 the first car insurance in America is issued at Hartford.
Oslo, Norway is the world's most expensive city. A gallon on gas costs almost $5, and it costs $1.32 to use the public restrooms.
On January 3, 1959 Alaska became the 49th state.
The ant can lift things 10 times its own weight.
4 out of 5 sing in the car. (and 3 out of 4's singing scares cats and makes babies cry)
Burt Reynold's father was the chief of police in West Palm Beach, Florida.
Moths have no stomach.
Many dogs' eyes reflect the color green in the dark, but some also reflect orange or red.
The native way to say I love you in Serbian is Volim te (most common) Ja te volim (less common).
The male moose sheds its antlers every winter and grows a new set the following summer.
In 2004, there were about 36 million people in the US aged 65 and over.
Actor Denzel Washington graduated from Fordham University with a BA in journalism.
Nearly 90% of American teens used the Internet in 2005.
The Chesapeake Bay Bridge Tunnel is the world's largest bridge-tunnel complex.
Around a million, billion neutrinos from the Sun will pass through your body while you read this sentence.
The only part of the body that has no blood supply is the cornea in the eye. It takes in oxygen directly from the air.
Female canaries cannot sing.
Your big toes have two bones each while the rest have three.
The Alps mountain range form part of Italy's northern border, and for a long time, protected the peninsula from invasion.
The largest manufacturing industry in the world is the Automobile building.
Americans consume on an average 3 hamburgers a week.
Jerry Seinfeld's apartment number (on the show) is 5A. In the old episodes it was 3A.
The Great Wall of China is about 4,000 miles long.
Modern teenagers are better behaved than their counterparts of 20 years ago, showing less problematic behavior involving sex, drugs and drink.
Mary Jo Kopechne & Sen Kennedy plunged off Chappaquiddick bridge on July 18th 1969.
William Howard Taft was the first golfer to become President.
20/20 vision means the eye can see normally at 20 feet. 20/15 is better; the eye can see at 20 feet what another eye sees at 15 feet.
All the pet hamsters in the world are descended from a single wild golden Hamster found in Syria in 1930!
Albert Einstien never wore any socks.
The state of California raises the most turkeys out of all of the states.
Only 14% of the homes in the United States had a bathtub.
A Swiss ski resort announced it would combat global warming by wrapping its mountain glaciers in aluminum foil to keep them from melting.
Brad Pitt is banned from entering China because of his role in Seven Years in Tibet.
ABBA GOLD has been in the UK charts for over 280 weeks, thats over 5 years.
Martha Stewart became a billionaire while in prison.
Laws forbidding the sale of sodas on Sunday prompted William Garwood to invent the ice cream sundae in Evanston, IL, in 1875.
Alexander Pope IQ Score 180.
To melt away 1 pound of fat you will need to walk 34 miles.
No matter its size or thickness, no piece of paper can be folded in half more than 8 times.
A typical blog contain links to web sites and blogs that the site (blog) owner/author may want to remember, review, share with its readers or just to provide relevant information that is related to its subject topic or the category nature of the blog.
Many hands make light work - but - too many cooks spoil the broth.
The lucky numbers of the tiger is: 4, 5, 7, 9, 13, 34, 44, 45 & 54
The word taxi is spelled the same in English, German, French, Swedish, Spanish and Portuguese.
Just about 3 people are born every second, and about 1.3333 people die every second. The result is about a 2 and 2/3 net increase of people every second.
In high school, Robin Williams was voted 'Least Likely to Succeed'.
Capsaicin, which makes hot peppers 'hot' to the human mouth, is best neutralized by casein, the main protein found in milk.
Broadway and West End singing sensation Elaine Paige served her apprenticeship in UK soap Crossroads. She had a small part as Caroline Winthrop in the late sixties.
There are 365 steps on the front of the U.S. Capitol Building - one for every day of the year.
Earth's year is actually 365.26 earth days.
Every 5 seconds a computer gets infected with a virus.
Seven Devils' Peaks has Heaven's Gate Lookout where you can see into four states.
Hydrofluoric acid will dissolve glass.
The electric shaver was patented on November 6, 1928.
In 1892, Italy raised the minimum age for marriage for girls to 12.
What a Difference a Century Makes In the summer of 1900... The average life expectancy in the United States was 47.
The native way to say I love you in Urdu is Mujhe tumse muhabbat hai/(spoken in Pakistan & India) tumse muhabbat karta hoon/ Kam prem kartahai.
The Mars Rover 'Spirit' is powered by six small motors the size of 'C' batteries. It has a top speed of 0.1 mph.
An octopus can change its shape and color to blend in with its surroundings.
The Brattle organ in St. John's Church in Portsmouth is the oldest pipe organ in the United States. Still played on special occasions, it dates back to 1708.
A crackly analogue recording made in 1951 is the earliest known example of a digital computer making music, say UK historians.
German chemists made a replica of a trophy the size of one molecule.
Robins on cards were a joke 150 years ago when postmen wore red tunics and were named after them.
If all the Coca-Cola vending machines in the U.S. were stacked one on top of each other, the pile would be over 450 miles high.
A million dollars' worth of $100 bills weighs only 22 pounds!
The name Wendy was made up for the book 'Peter Pan'.
August 3rd in 1863 Governor Seymour asks Lincoln to suspend draft in New York.
Water expands by about 9% as it freezes.
Lincoln's children kept goats in the White House.
Nylon is made from coal and petroleum.
In 2005, each person in the world consumed, on average, 77 beverages made by The Coca-Cola Company.
The Horse on the Wyoming license plate has a name, 'Old Steamboat'. It is named after a bronc that could not be ridden back in the oughts or the teens.
The placement of a donkey's eyes in its' heads enables it to see all four feet at all times.
Here is the literal translation of one of the standard traffic signs in China. It reads: 'Give large space to the festive dog that makes sport in the roadway'.
Hartsdale has a pet cemetery that contains over 12,000 plots.
The monastic hours are matins, lauds, prime, tierce, sext, nones, vespers and compline.
Hershey's Kisses are called that because the machine that makes them looks like it's kissing the conveyor belt.
Ants stretch when they wake up in the morning.
A 'year' on each planet is always different from each other.
Latin has had a major influence on the English language that continues to see wide use in the academic community to this very day.
If a cow has twins, a bull and a heifer, the heifer will never be able to reproduce.
The dragonfly has about 30,000 lenses covering the retina of its eye, and thus sees many, many images where we see only one.
Romanian firefighters could not get their trucks close enough to a burning building, so they put out the fire by throwing snowballs at it.
Approximately 115 tons of ocean salt spray enters the earth's atmosphere each second.
At 6 feet, 4 inches (1.9 meters), Abraham Lincoln was the tallest U.S. President.
Dublin has over 600 pubs in the city.
Bluebirds cannot see the color blue.
The popular silent star Greta Garbo spoke her first Swedish-accented words in the MGM film Anna Christie in 1930.
A Roman Legion was made up of 6,000 men.
Survivors of the Titanic included two dogs: a Pekingese belonging to Henry Sleeper Harper and a Pomeranian belonging to Miss Margaret Hays.
Ducks will only lay eggs early in the morning.
More people use blue toothbrushes than red ones.
Wesley Snipes installed public telephones while struggling to become an actor in New York.
During his entire life, Vincent Van Gogh sold exactly one painting, 'Red Vineyard at Arles'.
Alfred Nobel, the inventor of dynamite, was not only skilled in chemistry, but also spoke fluent French, Russian, English and German.
Peru has more pyramids than Egypt.
In 1860, 'Godey's Lady's Book' advised US women to cook tomatoes for at least 3 hours.
The 1st live televised murder was in 1963, when Jack Ruby killed JFK's assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald while millions of viewers watched.
The only nation whose name begins with an 'A' but doesn't end in an 'A' is Afghanistan.
Cows are able to hear lower and higher frequencies better than human beings.
The glue on Israeli postage is certified kosher.
A cow's only sweat glands are in its nose.
The 3rd Monday in April is a legal holiday, Patriot's Day, in Massachusetts.
While it took the radio 38 years, and the television a short 13 years, it took the World Wide Web only 4 years to reach 50 million users.
Light reflecting off the Moon takes 1.2822 seconds to reach Earth.
Virgina Woolf wrote all her books standing.
A tornado traveled 275 miles across Lake Ontario, New York and Lake Champlain.
The British royal family changed their surname (last name) from Saxe-Coburg-Gotha to Windsor, the name of their castle, in 1917.
The World Trade Center towers used to have two zip codes, 10047-10048, one for each building.
Scientists are now able to grow 'beating' heart tissue in a lab!
October 10 is National Metric Day.
A study has shown that there are possibly over 30 million species of insects dwelling in the canopies of tropical forests
Joan Crawford From silent star to camp queen, Joan Crawford's film career spanned some 45 years. Her former home, the Crawford House, is said to be haunted by her spirit as well as many others. Though the house has been exorcised many times, these ghosts refuse to leave.
The Home Insurance Building was built in 1885 in Chicago, becoming the world's first modern skyscraper.
On January 30th 1969 US/Canada ISIS 1 were launched to study ionosphere.
A slug has four noses.
Algebra, Calculus, and Trigonometry comes from India.
Hoover Dam, near Las Vegas, impounds the waters of Lake Mead, one of the world's largest artificial lakes.
Just like fingerprints, every cats nose pad is different.
Your skin is actually an organ.
The hardest bone in the human body is the jawbone.
For the first half of 2007, Nintendo represents nearly 70 percent of the industry growth in the United States and Canada combined.
In the1600's, 1 penny equaled about $1.66.
A book that has 1 Million pages in would be 70 m thick.
Earth's oceans are an average of 2 Miles deep.
NASA's Astrobiology Program addresses three fundamental questions: How does life begin and evolve? Is there life beyond Earth and, if so, how can we detect it? What is the future of life on Earth and in the universe?
Eddie Cochran's last recording before he died was Three Steps to Heaven!
The sloth (a mammal) moves so slowly that green algae can grow undisturbed on its fur!
Ad fin. (ad finem) is the Latin word for near the end [of the page].
The idea for 'tribbles' in 'Star Trek' came from gerbils, since some gerbils are actually born pregnant.
Butterflies taste with their feet.
In June 1963 Medgar Evers, state field secretary for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), was shot dead in front of his Jackson home.
Virginia has had 3 capital cities: Jamestown, Williamsburg, and Richmond.
One gallon of used motor oil can ruin approximately one million gallons of fresh water!
2 out of 5 have married their first love.
Montpelier, Vermont is the only state capitol without a McDonald's.
Most of Italy's industry is centered around the northern cities of Milan, Turin and Genoa .
Largest collection of traffic cones by David Morgan; 137 different types - 2/3 of the designs ever made.
The Sundance Film Festival is an internationally recognized celebration of independent motion pictures, held annually at the Sundance Ski Resort and nearby cities.
The Ancient Egyptians trained baboons to wait at their tables.
The United States consumes more oil than any other country in the World. In 2001, the US consumed as much as the entire European Union and Japan.
If you rearrange the words 'A Rolling Stone Gathers' you can spell 'No Moss Stroller on Go' or Amasses Nothing'
Gandhi's policy of Satyagraha, based largely on Hinduism, was influenced by many diverse sources, including Christ, Leo Tolstoy, and Henry David Thoreau.
It's against the law to pawn your dentures in Las Vegas!
Sore throat? Just mix 1/4 cup of vinegar with 1/4 cup of honey and take 1 tablespoon six times a day. The vinegar kills the bacteria.
No one knows what happens to the seahorse during winter as it is only seen during the summertime.
A giraffe's blood pressure is at least twice that of a healthy man.
About 50% of the world's tropical forests have gone lost.
The Idiom 'Raining cats and dogs' means raining very heavily.
The Wind River actually changes its name in the middle of the stream becoming the Big Horn River at a site at the north end of the Wind River Canyon, where each year the Native Americans hold a ceremony depicting the 'Wedding of the Waters'.
Ohio is listed as the 17th state in the U.S., but technically it is Number 47. Until August 7, 1953, Congress forgot to vote on a resolution to admit Ohio to the Union.
The abbreviation 'ORD' for Chicago's O'Hare airport comes from the old name 'Orchard Field'.
More than 90% of the Nicaraguan people are Roman Catholic.
The United States produces enough plastic film annually to cover the entire state of Texas.
A shorthand method of expressing one's moods emerged on the internet. This is called smileys.
The town of Kennesaw, Georgia has required its citizens to own a firearm and ammunition since 1982.
In Japan, there was a time when a wife being left-handed was ground for a divorce. Today the prejudice against lefties has lessened.
In Shakespeare's time, mattresses were secured on bed frames by ropes when you pulled on the ropes the mattress tightened, making the bed firmer to sleep on. That's where the phrase, 'goodnight, sleep tight' came from.
Astronomers believe that the universe contains one atom for every 88 gallons of space.
St. Elizabeth in Jamaica was the first town to have electricity.
The U.S. military operates 234 golf courses.
There are no poisonous snakes in Maine.
Some female cockroaches incubate their egg cases in their bodies until they are ready to hatch. These babies stay with their mothers a day or two after they are born.
John Wilkes Booth's brother once saved the life of Abraham Lincoln's son.
The Bible has been translated into Klingon.
An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain.
The smartest dogs are the Jack Russell Terrier and Scottish Border collie. Dumbest: Afgan hound.
Women end up digesting most of the lipstick they apply.
Cows can have regional accents.
56% of men have had sex at work.
The Spanish Flu of 1918, which killed at least 50 million people world-wide, originated in Kansas, not Spain.
A donkey will sink in quick sand, while a mule will not.
Eight positions are mentioned in Abbott and Costello's 'Who's on First?' routine. Only right field was left out.
And the best for last..... Turtles can breathe through their butts.
Oxygen is the most abundant element in the Earth's crust, waters, and atmosphere (about 49.5%).
Your body uses 300 muscles to balance itself when you are standing still.
Babies' eyes do not produce tears until the baby is approximately six to eight weeks old.
Idaho, especially the city of Grace, is most famous for their certified seed potatoes.
The 1st Academy Awards ceremony to be telecast was the 25th, in 1953.
50 years ago: Velcro was invented.
In the White House, there are 13,092 knives, forks and spoons.
Plastic is made out of 50% seaweed.
Colonel Clement A. Lounsberry, a Bismarck journalist, won fame for his reporting of the route of General George A. Custer at the Battle of the Little Bighorn in 1876.
You can tape a small mirror onto a cone speaker, play music and shine a laser on to the mirror and the reflection will look like a laser light show on your wall.
The average office worker spends 50 minutes a day looking for lost files and other items.
In the early 19th century the words 'trousers' and 'pants' were considered obscene in England.
Shark's teeth are literally as hard as steel.
The first couple to be shown in bed together on prime time television was Fred and Wilma Flintstone.
The Handel and Haydn Society, one of the nation's oldest continually performing musical groups, was formed in Boston in 1815 by Gottlieb Graupner.
Akron was the first city to use police cars.
Over 40% of Italy's labor force is unionized.
Mysterious Titan begins to appear more familiar as the Cassini spacecraft explores the once hidden surface of this Earth-like moon.
The now-extinct elephant bird of Madagascar laid an egg that weighed 27 pounds.
City dwellers have longer, thicker, denser nose hairs than country folks do.
Nike Air Soles do not actually have 'air' in them.
The McDonalds at the SkyDome in Toronto, Ontario is the only one in the world that sells hot dogs.
Harrison Ford has a species of spider named after him!
Canada's new flag, with its maple leaf design, was unfurled in 1965 in Ottawa!
The venom of a female black widow spider is more potent than that of a rattlesnake.
One in three male motorists picks their nose while driving.
Most American bread eaters are utterly unable to distinguish between significant scientific fact and meaningless statistical babbling.
The first All-Star baseball game was held in Chicago, 1905.
The native way to say I love you in Latin is Te amo/Vos amo.
The embryos of tiger sharks fight each other while in their mother's womb, the survivor being the baby shark that is born.
Abraham Lincoln had no middle name.
Bali has the worlds most variety of flora.
A skunk's smell can be detected by a human a mile away.
A fingernail or toenail takes about 6 months to grow from base to tip.
Australia is the only country that is also a continent.
Horses can't vomit and pigs can't look up in the sky.
A grizzly bear can run up to about forty miles per hour.
Pigs, walruses and light-colored horses can be sunburned.
Chewing gum while peeling onions will keep you from crying.
A single individual, Dr. Lieven P. Van Neste, owns over 200,000 domain names!
More American workers (18%) call sick on Friday than any other day of the week. Tuesday has the lowest percent of absenteeism (11%).
21% of us don't make our bed daily. 5% of us never do.
The first African American ever to receive the Congressional Medal of Honor was William H. Carney in 1900.
Tapping Reeve Law School, the first law school in the United States was established in 1784.
The sound you hear when you crack your knuckles is actually the sound of nitrogen gas bubbles bursting.
The wettest spot in the world is located on the island of Kauai. Mt. Waialeale consistently records rainfall at the rate of nearly 500 inches per year.
2,500 lefties die each year using products designed for righties.
In Arkansas, a voter is only allowed five minutes to mark his ballot.
315 entries in Webster's 1996 Dictionary were misspelled.
The harmonica is the world's best-selling music instrument.
100,000 cubic feet of water pours over the Niagara Falls every second.
Coffee is the second largest import in the US.
In Spain, it is common to pour chocolate milk on cereal for breakfast.
Alfred Hitchcock had no belly button for it was eliminated during surgery.
The air at the summit of Mount Everest, 29,029 feet is only a third as thick as the air at sea level.
Blue and fin whales can create the loudest sound by animals ever recorded.
The speed of a typical raindrop is 17 miles per hour.
The reason honey is so easy to digest is that it's already been digested by a bee.
Olympian Melissa Babish was born on February 28th 1952.
Honolulu is the only place in the United States that has a royal palace!
Starbucks, the biggest coffee chain in the world was founded in Seattle.
For every 'normal' webpage, there are five porn pages.
The fastest growing nail is on the middle finger.
Charlie Chaplin once won third prize in a Charlie Chaplin look-alike contest.
The longest words in the English language with only one syllable are the nine-letter 'screeched' and 'strengths'.
When Mahatma Gandhi died, an autopsy revealed five gold Krugerrands in his small intestine.
Black bears are not always black. They can be brown, cinnamon, yellow, and sometimes white.
Airports that are at higher altitudes require a longer airstrip due to lower air density.
Its impossible to smoke oneself to death with weed. You won't be able to retain enough motor control and consciousness to do so after such a large amount.
28.1% pee in the pool.
A perfect SAT score is 1600 combined. Bill Gates scored 1590 on his SAT. Paul Allen, Bill's partner in Microsoft, scored a perfect 1600. Bill Cosby scored less than 500 combined.
The first design/invention of the machine gun was by Leonardo Da Vinci, presenting a design of an eight barreled machine gun that was operated manually by a handcrank, and was mounted onto the ground, and barely portable.
The Earth experiences 50,000 earthquakes each year.
A rhinoceros horn is made of compacted hair.
The weather word almanac means A calendar with astronomical and weather data.
The largest piece of ice to fall to earth was an ice block 6 meters (20 ft) across that fell in Scotland on 13 August 1849.
Polar Bears can eat more than 50 lbs. of meat in one setting.
Tourists visiting Iceland should know that tipping at a restaurant is not considered an insult! Despite the expensive food, tipping is welcome as in any other country.
The people of Israel consume more turkeys per capita than any other country.
The giraffe has the highest blood pressure of any animal.
1 cubic yard of air weighs 2 pounds at sea level.
The last time American Green cards were actually green was 1964.
Greece's national anthem has 158 verses.
An average American will spend an average of 6 months during his lifetime waiting at red lights.
Eagles mate while airborne.
Mike Wallace wasn't always a reporter. He hosted seven TV game shows before beginning his full-time journalism career.
The dot over the letter I is called a 'tittle'.
Barbara Bush's book about her English Springer Spaniel, Millie's book, was on the bestseller list for 29 weeks. Millie was the most popular 'First Dog' in history.
A roach can live up to nine days without its head.
Oak trees can live 200 or more years.
Tropical ants, when a flood sweeps down on them, roll themselves into a huge living ball which drifts upon the water, with the young safe and dry at the core.
George W. Bush and John Kerry are 16th cousins, three times removed.
Dragonflies have six legs but cannot walk!
Lima beans contain cyanide!
It's illegal to spit on the sidewalk in Norfolk, Virginia.
Despite a population of over a billion, China has only about 200 family names.
123,000,000 cars are being driven down the U.S's highways.
Rapper Ice Cube's real name is O'Shea Jackson.
At latitude 60 degrees south you can sail around the world.
The Sun gives off a stream of electrically-charged particles called the solar wind. Every second, the Sun pumps more than a million tons of material into the solar wind.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles away, and warns off intruders or reunites scattered members of the pride.
The telephone was created by an Italian (Meucci).
The average human produces a quart of saliva a day \u2013 about 10,000 gallons in a lifetime.
A word or sentence that is the same front and back (racecar, kayak) is called a 'palindrome'.
The native way to say I love you in Sioux is Techihhila.
Ronald Reagan was the oldest president to ever leave office at 77 years old.
Milwaukee is home of Harley Davidson Motorcycles.
The pectin that is found in apples aids in lowering cholesterol levels.
Newton the Politician Uttered Just One Sentence.
On August 28, 2008 A new photo of the Soyuz 31 backup crew was taken thanks to Space Service International.
Hair and nails do not continue to grow after death. The skin recedes, making it appear to grow.
Tsunamis ( tidal waves ) travel as fast as jet planes.
The name Jeep comes from 'GP', the army abbreviation for General Purpose.
American adults have been educated for the longest time.
If you leave a goldfish in a dark room for years, it will turn white.
The English language is made up of collection of words that were originally borrowed from other languages one of such is Latin, the ancient Roman language.
At 15 inches the eyes of giant squids are the largest on the planet.
Parrots have 500 pounds per square inch of pressure in their beaks.
Bacterias can be found inhabiting almost every environmental condition on earth. They are found in plants and animals, soil, water, air, rocks, permanently frozen ice of Antarctica and volcanic cracks miles under the surface of the ocean.
The eyes receive approximately 90 percent of all our information, making us basically visual creatures.
Bill Gates designed a traffic control system for Seattle when he was only 15!
Vaccines contain formaldehyde, ethylene glycol (antifreeze), phenol (disinfectant / pesticide), and aluminum.
If Antarctica's ice would melt the oceans would rise about 60 meters.
It will also clean road haze from your windshield.
Diseases caused by bacteria usually cause inflammation, swelling and pain from nerve irritation and fever - caused by increased body temperature by the body fighting the disease.
Antarctica is the only land on our planet that is not owned by any country.
Italy's contributions to science include the barometer, electric battery, nitroglycerin, and wireless telegraphy.
The native way to say I love you in Czech is miluji te.
A beard grows an average of 140mm a year.
It took approximately 2.5 million blocks to build the Pyramid of Giza, which is one of the Great Pyramids.
The first popcorn machine was invented by Charlie Cretors in 1885.
D/FW International Airport, larger than the island of Manhattan, is the third busiest airports in the world with some 1,600 flights per day.
Dolphins don't automatically breath; they have to tell themselves to do it.
If you put a raisin in a fresh glass of champagne, it will rise and fall continuously.
The most destructive earthquake occurred in September, 1923 in Japan. 143,000 people lost their lives and the cost of the damage was estimated at 1 billion pounds i.e. $30 billion or Rs.120,000 crores.
Polar bear fur is not white, it's clear.
In the ancient Greek city-state of Sparta, if a man was not married by age 30, he would not be allowed to vote or watch athletic events involving nude young men.
Your odds of being killed by space debris are approximately 1 in 5 billion.
Rubberbands last longer when refrigerated.
Darwin didn't invent the phrase 'Survival of the Fittest'.
Opera originated in Italy as an entertainment at the courts of the Italian aristocracy.
In Japan, McDonald's is pronounced 'Makudonarudo.'
166,875,000,000 pieces of mail are delivered each year in the U.S.
Every single possible 3 character.com domain has been registered.
A Georgia company will mix your loved one's ashes with cement and drop it into the ocean to form an artificial reef.
The Empire State Building has been struck by lightning a dozen time in a single storm.
Some worms will eat themselves if they can't find any food!
The gecko's eyes are open all the time.
A total of 63 errors were made in the 1886 World Series.
Richard Nixon liked ketchup on his cottage cheese.
In 'Silence of the Lambs', Hannibal Lector (Anthony Hopkins) never blinks.
Most snakes have over 200 teeth.
The tips of fingers and the soles of feet are covered by a thick, tough layer of skin called the stratum corneum.
Babe Ruth wore a cabbage leaf under his cap to keep him cool! He changed it every 2 innings!
Koala Bears are not bears.
Micro-organisms have been brought back to life after being frozen in perma-frost for three million years.
The 'v' in the name of a court case does not stand for 'versus', but for 'and' (in civil proceedings) or 'against' (in criminal proceedings).
Tea was so expensive when it was first brought to Europe in the early 17th century that it was kept in locked wooden boxes.
The strength of early lasers was measured in Gillettes, the number of blue razor blades a given beam could puncture.
The unemployment rate of Liberia was estimated at 85% in 2003.
In San Salvador, drunk drivers can be punished by death before a firing squad.
The native way to say I love you in Chinese is Wo ie ni (Manderin, Cantonese).
At one 'feeding', a mosquito can absorb one and a half times its own weight in blood.
France has the highest per capita consumption of cheese.
20% of tuxedo rentals take place in May.
At 99 percent coverage, daytime lighting resembles local twilight.
Check your map! The Pacific entrance of the Panama Canal is farther East than the Atlantic entrance.
The average distance between the Earth & the Moon is 238,857 miles (384,392 km).
Julius Caesar was known as a great swimmer.
In the last 4,000 years, no new animals have been domesticated.
In every episode of 'Seinfeld' there is a Superman somewhere.
The song 'Happy Birthday to You' was originally written by sisters Mildred and Patty Hill as 'Good Morning to You.' The words were changed and it was published in 1935.
The longest street in San Francisco is Geary Boulevard.
The original name for butterfly was flutterby.
Indonesia is home to more volcanoes than any other country.
There are about 450 types of cheese in the world. 240 come from France.
Dogs can hear sounds that you can't!
Alaska has more inland water than any other state, 20,171 square miles.
101 Dalmatians, Peter Pan, Lady and the Tramp, and Mulan are the only Disney cartoons where both parents are present and don't die throughout the movie. .
There is a city called Rome on every continent.
A toothpick is the object most often choked on by Americans.
Pepsi was originally named Brad's Drink, and Kool-Aid originally went by Fruit Smack Flavored Syrup.
In 1778, fashionable women of Paris never went out in blustery weather without a lightning rod attached to their hats.
The average child will eat 1,500 peanut butter and jelly sandwiches by the he/she graduates from high school.
As of 2006, 200 million blogs were left without updates.
On August the 1971 Paul McCartney announces the formation of his group Wings
Several top stars got their big breaks on The Mickey Mao Club.
According to scientific studies, a rat's performance in a maze can be improved by playing music written by Mozart.
It takes the stomach an hour to break down cows' milk.
In ancient Japan, public contests were held to see who could fart the loudest and longest!
California consumes more bottled water than any other product.
According to a global survey in 1997 by Durex Condoms Canadians are the world's fourth worst lovers. The worst three slots belong to South Africa, Russia, and Poland.
One of Hewlett Packard's first ideas was an automatic urinal flusher.
Reindeer like to eat bananas.
To sell your home faster, and for more money, paint it yellow.
One barrel of petroleum holds 42 gallons.
Swimming pools in Phoenix, Arizona, pick up 20 pounds of dust a year.
The bagpipe was originally made from the whole skin of a dead sheep.
When you are looking at someone you love, your pupils dilate, they do the same when you are looking at someone you hate.
A scorpion could survive for three weeks if it was embedded in a block of ice.
Diet Coke was only invented in 1982.
At 300 000 sq km (116 000 sq miles) Italy is only marginally bigger than New Zealand.
The Earth rotates more slowly on its axis in March than in September.
Jupiter, the fifth planet from the Sun, is the largest planet in the solar system, twice as big as all the other planets combined.
In the late 19th century, millions of human mummies were used as fuel for locomotives in Egypt where wood and coal was scarce, but mummies were plentiful.
Porsche owners are more likely to cheat on their partners than any other car owner.
The first American to eat food in space was Scott Carpenter aboard the Mercury spacecraft Aurora 7 in 1962.
Missouri suffered the most from the devastating flood of 1993, when flood crests set record heights along the Mississippi and Missouri rivers.
Triskaidekaphobia means fear of the number 13.
The name Pug is believed to have derived from this dog's resemblance to the pug monkey.
A chimpanzee can learn to recognize itself in a mirror, but monkeys can't.
A car traveling at 80 km/h uses half its fuel to overcome wind resistance.
The deepest part of the ocean is 35,813 feet (10,916 meters) deep and occurs in the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean. At that depth the pressure is 18,000 pounds (9172 kilograms) per square inch.
In 1979 Wayne Gretzky scored his first point in the NHL against the Chicago Blackhawks.
Gabriel, Michael, and Lucifer are the only angels named in the Bible.
Leonardo da Vinci was dyslexic, and he often wrote backwards.
The human head is a quarter of our total length at birth, but only an eighth of our total length by the time we reach adulthood.
It was discovered on a space mission that a frog can throw up. The frog throws up it's stomach first, so the stomach is dangling out of it's mouth. Then the frog uses it's forearms to dig out all of the stomach's contents and then swallows the stomach back down again.
A cat has 32 muscles in each ear.
Agriculture used to make up over a third of Italy's economy. It now makes up less than three percent.
In October, 1959 Elizabeth Taylor became the first Hollywood star to receive $1 million for a single picture - for Cleopatra.
Two-thirds of the world's kidnappings occur in Colombia
The idiom 'a bed of roses' really means a pleasant or easy situation.
The first bicycle that was made in 1817 by Baron von Drais didn't have any pedals? People walked it along.
Americans spend about 90% of their time indoors.
An egg will float if placed in water in which sugar has been added.
Apples, not caffeine, are more efficient at waking you up in the morning.
In one day, a full grown redwood tree expels more than 2 tons of water through its leaves.
Governor Gary Locke is the first governor in U.S. history.
A bowling pin will fall down at a tilt of 7.5 degrees.
The Kiwi, national bird of New Zealand, can't fly. It lives in a hole in the ground, is almost blind, and lays only one egg each year. Despite this, it has survived for more than 70 million years.
Abraham Lincoln was the sixteenth President of the United States from 1861 to 1865.
If Monaco's ruling house of Grimaldi should ever be without an heir (male or female), the country will cease to be a sovereign state.
Alma is claimed to be the Spinach Capital of the World.
The mandrill baboon has a red nose, blue cheeks, and an orange beard!
The native way to say I love you in Cambodian is kh_nhaum soro_lahn nhee_ah/Bon sro lanh oon.
Your odds of being killed in a tornado are 1 in 2 million.
Oysters can change from one gender to another and back again.
Animal gestation periods: the shortest is the American opossum, which bears its young 12 to 13 days after conception; the longest is the Asiatic elephant, taking 608 days, or just over 20 months.
Montana's rivers and streams provide water for three oceans and three of the North American continent's major river basins.
The Black Hole, 1979, was Disney's first PG-rated movie.
Offered a new pen to write with, 97% of all people will write their own name.
On October 7, 1916 Georgia Tech beat Cumberland University in a football game by a score of 222 to 0.
Someone paid $14,000 for the bra worn by Marilyn Monroe in the film 'Some Like It Hot'.
How does a shark find fish? It can hear their hearts beating.
Einstein, the War Pacifist, Urged FDR to Build the Atom Bomb.
Koh Samui produces about 3 million coconuts each month and is said to have the worlds most varieties of coconut palms.
When baby sharks are born, they swim away from their mothers right away and are on there own. In fact, their mothers might see them as prey.
Although difficult, it's possible to start a fire by rapidly rubbing together two Cool Ranch Doritos.
Finland has about 190000 lakes.
Frogs sometimes eat enough fireflies that they themselves glow.
$203,000,000 is spent on barbed wire each year in the U.S.
The highest temperature produced in a laboratory was 920,000,000 F (511,000,000 C) at the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor in Princeton, NJ, USA.
In the early 1960's, Porsche commercially manufactured farm tractors.
In 1862 the current Michigan State University became the first land grant college in the United States.
In the English language, there are so many different collective nouns (group nouns) for mostly everything both living and non-living that there are even multiple collective names for most of them.
John Charles Fremont led the first thorough exploration of the Great Basin, which includes most of Nevada, in 1843 and 1844.
An African adult elephant eats about six hundred pounds of food a day; that's four percent of the elephant's body weight!
Howler monkeys are the noisiest (not the loudest) land animals. Their calls can be heard over 2 miles away.
Larry Ellison, Oracle's CEO, holds the records for highest executive compensation in one year \u2013 $706 million in 2001.
One in seven workers in Boston, Massachusetts walks to work.
The first motion picture copyrighted in the United States (in 1894) showed a man in the act of sneezing.
On a clear day seven states are visible from Lookout Mountain near Chattanooga.
The volume of water that the Giant Sequoia tree consumes in a 24-hour period contains enough suspended minerals to pave 17.3 feet of a 4-lane concrete freeway.
Originally, BMW was an airplane engine manufacturer.
In 1999, residents of the state of Maine in America built the world's biggest ever snowman. He stood at 113ft tall.
A storm blanketed Worcester, MA, with 7.5 inches of snow, a record snowfall total for so early in the season for that location.
The Earth weighs around 6,600,000,000,000,000,000,000 tons (5,940 billion billion metric tons)!
Eighteen per cent of all global carbon dioxide emissions are from cars.
Female black widow spiders eat their males after mating.
Spindletop oil field, near Beaumont, was the first gusher in North America. In 1901, it sprayed more than 800,000 barrels of oil into the air before it was brought under control.
Zebras can't see the color orange.
In 1913 over one million cars where registered in the US.
The lucky numbers of the monkey is: 3, 4, 5, 7, 16, 23, 34, 45 & 54
A kiss contains about 9 milligram of water and about 0,7 grams of fat and protein.
There are 318,979,564,000 possible combinations of the first four moves in Chess.
Dentists have recommended that a toothbrush be kept at least 6 feet away from a toilet to avoid airborne particles resulting from the flush.
The national sport of Italy is soccer (known as football outside of America).
Music was sent down a telephone line for the first time in 1876, the year the phone was invented.
Electricity doesn't move through a wire but through a field around the wire.
Adult movie star, Ron Jeremy, has a master's degree in Special Education.
Proposition 13 cuts California property taxes 57% on June 6th 1978.
Most Zambians don't live to see their 40th birthday.
Americans throw away about 5 million bicycles each year.
Santa's reindeer are: Dasher, Dancer,Prancer, Vixen, Comet, Cupid, Donner, and Blitzen.
52% of Americans drink coffee.
Originally, Nintendo was a playing card manufacturer.
In The Wizard of Oz the Scarecrow was looking for a brain, the Cowardly Lion was looking for courage, and the Tin Man was looking for a heart.
There are more than 10,000 distinct religious groups in the world.
In 1965, auditions were held for the 'Monkees' TV show. Some of the people who responded (but were not hired) were Stephen Stills, Harry Nilsson, Paul Williams and Charles Manson.
The geographic center of the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, is located in South Dakota, 17 miles west of Castle Rock.
Italian families save more money than the Japanese and Germans, and three times more than Americans do.
At age 10, Justin Timberlake won 1991 pre-teen Mr. America pageant. The following year, he became the first male winner of America's Universal Charm pageant.
The first programme shown on BBC2 was Play School.
Polar bears are left-handed.
At over 2000 kilometres long The Great Barrier Reef is the largest living structure on Earth.
You can only smell 1/20th as well as a dog.
Greyhounds can reach a speed of up to 45 miles per hour.
There are over 58 million dogs in the U.S!
The Idiom 'pour/throw cold water on' means if you pour cold water on opinions or ideas, you criticize them and stop people believing them or being excited about them.
To find out if a watermelon is ripe, knock it, and if it sounds hollow then it is ripe.
A herd of sixty cows is capable of producing a ton of milk in less than a day.
Seven out of every ten hockey-playing Canadians will lose a tooth during a game. For Canadians who don't play hockey, that figure drops to five out of ten.
As a teenager, actor-writer Matt Damon, earned extra cash by being a sidewalk break-dancer.
Dungarees is another word for Denim.
Some of the logs in Petrified Wood Park in Lemmon weigh more than 10,000 pounds. Others contain the fossilized remains of snakes and early marine life.
On April 22nd 2004 Former National Football League star Pat Tillman, who turned down a lucrative contract with the Artizona Cardinals to join the Army rangers, was killed in Afghanistan.
Paraguay and Moldova are the only countries with national flags with different emblems on the obverse and reverse sides.
Picasso's Full Name Has 23 Words.
Goldfish swallowing started at Harvard in 1939.
Boron nitride (BN) is the second hardest substance known to man.
In 1969, Midnight Cowboy became the first and only X-rated production to win the Academy Award for Best Picture.
A tree in metropolitan area will survive about eight years.
Natural gas has no odor. The smell is added artificially so that leaks can be detected.
The native way to say I love you in Lao is Khoi huk chau.
In most advertisements, the time displayed on a watch or clock is usually 10:10.
Americans save less than one percent of their incomes.
On September 1st 1969 the Libyan revolution took place.(National Day)
About 500 movies are made in the US and 800 in India annually.
It is British Commonwealth's Bank Holiday on August 3rd (on a Monday)
The average person has over 1,460 dreams a year.
81.3% would tell an acquaintance to zip his pants.
2/3 of us speed up at a yellow light.
Marilyn Monroe had six toes on one foot.
Cats can produce over one hundred vocal sounds, while dogs can only produce about ten.
The honeybee kills more people world-wide than all the poisonous snakes combined.
The difference between apple juice and apple cider is that the juice is pasteurized and the cider is not.
Swifts, doves, falcons, and sandpipers can approach 200 mph.
There are 41,806 different spoken languages in the world today.
The average Italian is 41 years old.
Hummingbirds can't walk.
About 3000 years ago, most Egyptians died by the time they were 30!
A starfish can turn its stomach inside out.
Sports Illustrated magazine allows subscribers to opt out of receiving the famous swimsuit issue each year. Fewer than 1% choose this option.
All US Presidents have worn glasses. Some just didn't like being seen wearing them in public.
The Mint once considered producing doughnut-shaped coins!
Disneyland opened in 1955.
Just less than one quarter of the people in the world are vegetarians.
Starfish have no brains.
Cojo, the 1st gorilla born in captivity, was born at the Columbus Zoo, in Ohio, in 1956 and weighed 3 1/4 pounds.
In the latter part of the 18th century, Prussian surgeons treated stutterers by snipping off portions of their tongues.
Ted Turner owns about 2% of New Mexico.
New Jersey has a spoon museum with over 5,400 spoons from almost all the states.
The famous tulips of Holland originated in Turkey.
As of 2007, China had about 30 million cars and light trucks for 1.3 billion people. The U.S. had about 240 million cars for 300 million people.
The most used letter in the English alphabet is 'E', and 'Q' is the least used!
The light from your computer screen streams at you at almost 186,000 miles a second.
The Royal Albatross' eggs take 79 days to hatch.
You are about 1 centimeter taller in the morning than in the evening!
There are more bacteria in your mouth than there are people in the world.
Mosquito's are attracted to the color blue twice as much as to any other color.
The characters Bert and Ernie on Sesame Street were named after Bert the cop and Ernie the taxi driver in Frank Capra's It's a Wonderful Life.
A pound of houseflies contains more protein than a pound of beef.
Al Capone died in prison from syphillis - despite being the first sufferer to be treated with antibiotics!
Armadillos can get leprosy.
Winston Churchill was a stutterer. As a child, one of his teachers warned, 'Because of his stuttering he should be discouraged from following in his father's political footsteps.'
Luther Crowell invented the paper bag in 1867.
All of the Earth's continents are wider at the North than in the South - and nobody knows why.
111,111,111 x 111,111,111 = 12,345,678,987,654,321.
In deep space most lubricants will disappear.
One in 500 humans has one blue eye and one brown eye.
Donkeys are commonly used by the Iraqi Rebels to launch rockets!
By age sixty, most people have lost half of their taste buds.
The katydid bug hears through holes in its hind legs!
More germs are transferred shaking hands than kissing.
The native way to say I love you in Esperanto is Mi amas vin.
In a year, your heart can beat up to 40,000,000 times!.
Brittany Murphy claims she started speaking at 4 and a half months. She also says she was a very 'energetic child, really bubbly...extremely precocious'.
Napoleon died of arsenic poisoning
The U.S. has more bagpipe bands than Scotland does.
An egg is a single cell.
75% of all raisins eaten by people in the U.S. are eaten at breakfast.
Abraham Lincoln's dog, Fido, was assassinated too.
The medical name for the part of the brain associated with teenage sulking is 'superior temporal sulcus'.
The last note of a keyboard is C.
Scotland has more redheads than any other part of the world.
On average, 40% of all hotel rooms in the United States remain empty every night.
Sarah Bernhardt, regarded as France's greatest actress, was disabled by a knee injury. Though her leg was amputated in 1914, she continued starring on stage until just before her death in 1923.
The giant red star Betelgeuse has a diameter larger than that of the Earth's orbit around the Sun.
NASA's Phoenix Mars Lander has been digging and excavating Martian soil with its nearly 8-foot-long robotic arm.
A fetus develops fingerprints at eighteen weeks!
It takes a ton of water to make a pound of refined sugar.
On August the 3rd 1956 Willie Williams of the US sets 100 meter record at 10.1
An egg contain all vitamin except for the vitamin C.
Solid structures (parking lots, roads, buildings) in the United States cover an area the size of Ohio.
Wyoming's license plates feature a man on a bucking bronco.
Beards are the fastest growing hairs on the human body. If the average man never trimmed his beard, it would grow to nearly 30 feet long in his lifetime.
Rainforests higher than 3,000 feet above sea level are called cloud forests.
On August 3rd 1989 Rickey Henderson sets AL mark of 50 steals in 9 seasons.
You are more likely to be killed by a champagne cork than a poisonous spider!
The original story from 'Tales of 1001 Arabian Nights' begins, 'Aladdin was a little Chinese boy'.
More than half of women in the United States will not leave their home without makeup on.
New Hampshire's State House is the oldest state capitol in which a legislature still meets in its original chambers.
Every 23 seconds a Tupperware party starts somewhere in the world.
Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 90% of the human body.
It's illegal to own a red car in Shanghai, China.
After the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor in 1941, people of Japanese descent living on the Pacific Coast were relocated to the Heart Mountain Relocation Center in Wyoming.
John Henry 'Doc' Holliday's brief and tumultuous existence led him to Glenwood Springs where he succumbed to tuberculosis and died at the Hotel Glenwood on November 8, 1887.
The UK's best selling hiking magazine published faulty coordinates for descending Scotland's tallest peak (Ben Nevis), and recommended a route that leads climbers off the edge of a cliff.
It was during the Victorian era that the formerly nude Cupid was redesigned as wearing a skirt.
The Philippines is home to the most expensive shells in the world called glory of the sea (Connus gloriamaris).
The city of Naples gave birth to the pizza .
Somewhere in the flicker of a badly tuned TV set is the background radiation from the Big Bang.
The most dangerous asteroids, those capable of causing major regional or global disasters, usually impact the Earth only once every 100,000 years on average.
Pi has been calculated to 2,260,321,363 digits. The billionth digit in Pi is 9.
James Naismith invented basketball in Springfield in 1891. He taught physical education and wanted an indoor sport for his students during the winter months.
10 percent of all human beings ever born are alive at this very moment.
The Yo-Yo originated as a weapon in the Philippine Islands during the sixteenth century.
The first e-mail program was created in 1972 by Ray Tomlinson of Bolt Beranek and Newman (BBN).
The first streetlights in America were installed in Philadelphia around 1757.
Watching television can act as a natural painkiller for children.
Arizona is roughly the size of Italy.
The southern California area has around 10,000 earthquakes each year.
Early in her career, Whitney Houston sang the jingle used in commercials for Bounce fabric sheets.
Lake Nicaragua in Nicaragua is the only fresh water lake in the world that has sharks.
Sharon Stone is allergic to caffeine.
The windiest place on Earth is Mt. Washington, in New Hampshire.
The highest point in Pennsylvania is lower than the lowest point in Colorado.
Italy has three active volcanoes: Vesuvius, Etna, and Stromboli.
When a small amount of liquor were placed on a scorpion, it would instantly go mad and sting itself to death.
Tennessee is home to the steepest passenger incline railway in the U.S.
New Mexico has far more sheep and cattle than people. There are only about 12 people per square mile.
The only letter not appearing on the Periodic Table is the letter 'J'.
There are between 100,000,000,000 and 1,000,000,000,000 stars in a normal galaxy.
Julius Caesar's autograph is worth about $2,000,000.
If our Sun were just inch in diameter, the nearest star would be 445 miles away.
Hondas and Toyotas are the most frequently stolen passenger cars because they have parts that can be readily exchanged between model years without a problem.
98% of brown bears in the United States are in Alaska.
Oklahoma is the third largest gas-producing state in the nation.
Vermont makes more maple syrup, marble and monument granite than any other state.
Azerbaijan's country motto is 'Land of the Eternal Fire'.
The first license plate on a car in the United States was issued in Denver, Colorado in 1908.
All the gold ever mined could be molded into a cube 60 feet high and 60 feet wide.
Alaska has rain forests.
Sigmund Freud had a morbid fear of ferns.
The declawing of a pet cat involves surgery called an onychectomy, in which the entire claw and end bone of each toe of the animal are amputated.
Michigan is a leading state in the ownership of recreational boats and in the sale of hunting and fishing licenses.
In 1933, Mickey Mouse, an animated cartoon character, received 800,000 fan letters.
The U.S. Government spent $277,000 on pickle research in 1993.
Einstein slept about 10 hours per night.
Pepsi originally contained pepsin, thus the name.
Neiman Marcus was founded in Dallas, with the flagship store downtown.
In 1789, the total U.S. federal government debt was $190,000.
One third of the electricity produced on earth is used to power electric light bulbs!
It is illegal to purchase or consume Jack Daniel's Whiskey in the town in which it is produced!
In space, astronauts cannot cry, because there is no gravity, so the tears can't flow.
Men get hiccups more often than women.
In 1971 Oregon became the first state to ban the use of non-returnable bottles and cans.
Every year, Alaska has about 5,000 earthquakes.
In the U.S., for every dollar you spend on gasoline 27 cents of it is in taxes.
Muscles in the human body (640 in total) make up about half of the body weight.
Englishman Roger Bacon invented the magnifying glass in 1250.
90% of all US physicians had no college education.
The heaviest human brain ever recorded weighed 5 lb. 1.1 oz. (2.3 kg.).
Before you can run for President in the U.S. you must be a natural born citizen, a citizen for at least 14 years and be 35 years of age.
In 1775 Ethan Allen and his Green Mountain Boys won one of the first important American victories of the Revolutionary War by capturing Fort Ticonderoga and Crown Point.
The storage capacity of human brain exceeds 4 Terrabytes.
Some of these particles are as tiny as grains of sand, some are much larger than skyscrapers. Actually, some are up to a kilometer (more than half-a-mile) across.
The wristwatch was invented in 1904 by Louis Cartier.
The word 'queue' is the only word in the English language that is still pronounced the same way when the last four letters are removed.
If you disassembled the Great Pyramid of Cheops, you would get enough stones to encircle the earth with a brick wall twenty inches high.
The Venezuelan brown bat can detect and dodge individual raindrops in mid-flight, arriving safely back at his cave completely dry.
Among Delaware's many historic churches is Old Swedes Church and Hendrickson House Museum, in Wilmington, which has been in use since its completion in 1698.
93% of American children will go out trick or treating for Halloween.
One of every 8 married couples in the US last year met online.
The Niagara Falls moves upstream at an average rate of about 295ft a century!
Wayne's World was filmed in two weeks.
Hatch is known as the 'Green Chile capital of the world'.
Italian producer Carlo Ponti meet Sophia Loren when he was a judge in a beauty contest. Loren was only 15 years old. She starred in one of his films five years later and they married in 1957 when Sophia was 23.
If you are afraid of darkness it's called achluophobia.
Madrid is the only European capital city not situated on a river.
With almost 40 million visitors, Italy is the fourth most visited country in the world.
The more panels a football has - and therefore the more seams - the easier it is to control in the air.
The Boston University Bridge (on Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts) is the only place in the world where a boat can sail under a train driving under a car driving under an airplane.
The Grand Canyon is 227 miles long, 1 mile deep, and has an average width of 10 miles.
When you blush, the lining of your stomach also turns red.
Canada legalized gay marriage throughout the country, becoming one of four nations (along with Belgium, the Netherlands, and Spain) to do so.
When the Titanic sank, 2228 people were on it. Only 706 survived.
It is three times the size of Texas. By comparison, Iceland is only 39,800 square miles.
The average person can live for eleven days without water, assuming an average temperature of 60 degrees fahrenheit.
In Juan Fernandez archipelago in Chile there is an Island named Robinson Crusoe.
12% of men never use their car blinkers.
The 'L.L.' in L.L. Bean stands for 'Leon Leonwood'.
The low frequency call of the humpback whale is the loudest noise made by a living creature.
Liquid TIDE laundry detergent glows under a blacklight.
Only female bees work.
American made parts account for only 1% of the Chrysler Crossfire. 96% of the Ford F-150 Heritage Truck is American.
55% of Americans claim they would continue working even if they received a $10,000,000 lottery prize.
Russia has the most movie theaters in the world.
The only domestic animal not mentioned in the Bible is the cat.
Some frogs like the wood frog and some turtles can stop their heart and frost their tissues during winter and defrost after that.
80% of Publishers' Clearing House $10 million winners did not purchase any magazine subscriptions!
The native way to say I love you in Polish is Ja Cie Kocham/Kocham Cie.
Texas is home to Dell and Compaq computers and central Texas is often referred to as the Silicon Valley of the south.
In Los Angeles, there are fewer people than there are automobiles.
The ancient Chinese royalty loved the Pekingese, carrying them tucked into the sleeves of their royal robes.
Cheetahs make a chirping sound that is much like a bird's chirp or a dog's yelp. The sound is so an intense, it can be heard a mile away.
Mel Gibson has personally earned almost $400,000,000 from his movie 'The Passion of the Christ'.
The first TV commercial showed a Bulova watch ticking onscreen for exactly 60 seconds.
7,000 new insect species are discovered every year.
Paraskevidekatriaphobia means fear of Friday the 13th, which occurs one to three times a year.
Napoleon reportedly carried chocolate on all his military campaigns.
The word democracy is banned in online chat rooms in China.
The national protest song of Italy is Bella Ciao. It was made famous by Italian partisans in WWII, and can be heard at almost any protest.
Fish have no outer ears but enclosed organs situated on either side of the head behind the eyes that respond to sound waves in the water.
All major league baseball umpires must wear black underwear while on the job (in case their pants split).
Newborn babies are given to the wrong mother in the hospital 12 times a day worldwide.
Sneezing may be a symptom of pregnancy. Expectant mothers often sneeze for no apparent reason.
A person uses approximately fifty-seven sheets of toilet paper each day!
Over 90% of all fish caught are caught in the northern hemisphere.
A woman's heart beats faster than a man's.
The dioxin 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin is 150,000 times deadlier than cyanide.
On July 1, 1921, West Virginia was the first state to have a sales tax.
The bagpipe was first made from the liver of a sheep.
A skunk will not bite and throw its scent at the same time.
Reindeer milk has more fat than cow milk.
In West Virginia, only babies can ride in a baby carriage.
Pele scored 1,281 goals in 1,363 games.
Loudest burp Paul Hunn of from London, recorded a burp of 104.9 decibels - as loud as a pneumatic drill .
In Ancient Greece, if a woman watched even one Olympic event, she was executed.
Nessie, the Loch Ness monster is protected by the 1912 Protection of Animals Acts of Scotland. With good reason - Nessie is worth $40 million annually to Scottish tourism.
The Roman Empire fell in 476 AD, after its last emperor, Romulus Augustulus, was forced to abdicate by barbarian invaders.
The most common speed limit sign in the United States is 25 m.p.h.
Lassie was played by several male dogs, despite the female name, because male collies were thought to look better on camera. The main 'actor' was named Pal.
Nachos is the food most craved by pregnant women.
Lightning strikes about 6,000 times per minute on this planet.
It is possible for a scorpion to sting itself to death as they are not immune to their own poison!
The leg bones of a bat are so thin that no bat can walk.
Sea otters have 2 coats of fur.
The streets of Victor, Colorado, once a gold rush town, are paved with low-grade gold.
Eels have two hearts.
The Tillamook Cheese Factory is the largest cheese factory in the world.
Mailing an entire building has been illegal in the U.S. since 1916 when a man mailed a 40,000-ton brick house across Utah to avoid high freight rates.
Florida's beaches lose 20 million cubic yards of sand annually.
The human body has enough fat to produce 7 bars of soap.
The ancient Egyptians bought jewelry for their pet crocodiles.
The first neon sign was made in 1923 for a Packard dealership.
The same amount of calories are burned by doing 6 sessions that are 5 minutes each of an activity and doing 1 session of that activity for 30 minutes.
The 1st televised presidential debate was September 26, 1960, between Nixon and Kennedy.
Animals will not eat another animal that has been hit by a lightning strike!
The average cough comes out of your mouth at 60 miles (96.5 km) per hour.
Italians refer to their country as Italia.
A squid has 10 tentacles.
The 'New York Post,' founded in 1803 by Alexander Hamilton, is the oldest running newspaper in the United States.
The Indian atlas-moth has a 12-inch wing span.
Rain falls at 11 km/h.
Napoleon made his battle plans in a sandbox.
In a full grown rye plant, the total length of fine root hairs may reach 6600 miles (10,645 km).
The male of one species of insect related to the praying mantis can only reproduce after the female has bitten off his head.
The rat has been called the world's most destructive mammal - other than man.
A man once sued his doctor because he survived his cancer longer than the doctor predicted.
US scientists calculated that Santa would have to visit 822 homes a second to deliver all the world's presents on Christmas Eve, travelling at 650 miles a second.
Cologne came out of Italy.
In Florida, It is illegal to sing in a public place while attired in a swimsuit.
Crocodiles swallow stones to help them dive deeper.
Baby whales grow at an average rate of 10lbs per hour!
Goat's milk is used more widely throughout the world than cow's milk.
Kansas City has more fountains than Rome.
During World War II, Uncle Ben's was the exclusive supplier of rice to the U.S. Armed Forces.
The egg of the hummingbird is the world's smallest bird's egg; the egg of the ostrich, the world's largest.
While in Alcatraz, Al Capone was inmate #85.
Rome's emblem is the she-wolf suckling the two brothers Romulus and Remus.
Anagrams contains all the letters of the original word or phrase or sentence but only in a different order.
Those stars and colours you see when you rub your eyes are called phosphenes.
There are 206 bones in the adult human body and there are 300 in children (as they grow some of the bones fuse together).
Percentage of American women who say they'd marry the same man: 50%.
The Germans tried to copy Coca-Cola and came up with the drink Fanta.
Pound for Pound, hamburgers cost more than new cars!
The appendix has no function in modern humans. It is believed to have been part of the digestive system in our primitive ancestors.
Most mosquitoes do not fly very far from their larval habitat, but the salt marsh mosquito migrates 75 to 100 miles over the course of its life.
Italy imports over 75% of its energy.
Carl Sagan was a pot smoker.
Eau Claire holds the annual International Cherry Pit Spitting Championship contest. The record set in 1988, was for spitting 72 feet, 7 1/2 inches.
Christian Barnard performed the first heart transplant in 1967 - the patient lived for 18 days.
Microbial life can survive on the cooling rods of a nuclear reactor.
Soccer became a major sport in England and Scotland in 1872.
Columbia University is the second largest landowner in New York City, after the Catholic Church.
A company in Taiwan makes dinnerware out of wheat, so you can eat your plate!
For people that are lactose intolerant, chocolate aids in helping milk digest easier.
Salt lakes such as the Great Salt Lake, Caspian Sea and the Dead Sea are salty are about 10 times saltier than sea water.
Up to three thousand species of trees have been cataloged in square mile of the Amazon jungle.
The average temperature at 40,000 feet above sea level is -60 F.
A cesium atom in an atomic clock beats over nine billion times a second.
In 1221 the daughter of Genghis Khan ordered the killing of the entire population of the city of Nishapur (about 60,000) in one hour. The order came after her husband killing.
Insects shiver when they're cold.
Today's average household in the USA contains more computer power than existed in the world before 1965.
If someone is speaking a certain phrase or sentence that do not mean exactly what they say it is called idiom.
The hottest recorded day in Phoenix was June 26, 1990, when the temperature hit 122 degrees.
Israel is one quarter the size of the state of Maine.
A hippo can open its mouth wide enough to fit a 4 foot tall child inside!
Male lions can sleep for up to 20 hours a day.
The city of Venice stands on about 120 small islands.
53% prefer ATM machines over tellers.
On an average work day, a typist's fingers travel 12.6 miles.
Maps have been around for about 4500 years.
One penny doubled everyday becomes over 5 million dollars in just 30 days.
In rural areas, there are more insects in 1 square mile than there are humans on earth.
In 1954, Bob Hawke was immortalized by the Guinness Book of Records for chugging 2.5 pints of beer in 12 seconds.
In the film Forrest Gump, all the still photos show Forrest with his eyes closed.
Pele's real name is Edson Arantes do Nascimento.
Pekingese dogs were sacred to the emperors of China for more than 2,000 years. They are one of the oldest breeds of dogs in the world.
Utopia is a large, smooth lying area of Mars.
In an average day, a four year old child will ask 437 questions.
Everton FC used to be called St Domingo's FC!
30 years ago: The computer mouse was invented.
The biggest dog on record was an Old English Mastiff that weighed 343 pounds. He was 8 feet, 3 inches from nose to tail.
Bulls can run faster uphill than they can downhill.
Lab tests can detect traces of alcohol in urine six to 12 hours after a person has stopped drinking.
The Queen Mary - the grandest vessel of her day - had many of her vital components made by car manufacturer Skoda!
There are 53 Lego bricks manufactured for each person in the world.
The first Lifesaver flavor was peppermint.
The frozen margarita machine was invented in Dallas.
In ratio of cows to people, Vermont has the greatest number of dairy cows in the country.
NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter has the most powerful telescopic camera ever to another planet, plus five other scientific instruments.
Catfish have 100,000 taste buds.
Singing sand can be found on the beaches of Grand Haven. The sand particles make a whistling sound as you walk upon them.
Astronauts cannot burp in space. There is no gravity to separate liquid from gas in their stomachs.
The heart pumps about 1 million barrels of blood during an average lifetime!
The first product that Sony came out with was the rice cooker.
None of the Beatles knew how to read music.
Che Guevara suffered from asthma!
Queen Elizabeth II has a rubber duck in her private bath with an inflatable crown.
Oil tycoon, John D. Rockefeller, was the world's first billionaire.
St. Mark's Cathedral in Venice, one of the great examples of Byzantine architecture, was begun in the ninth century. It was partly destroyed by fire in 976 and was rebuilt in 1071 as a Byzantine structure.
Many banks lent large sums of money to developing nations. In order to pay those debts plus interest many nations have turned to the mining of their natural resources as a source of financial aid.
Microsoft made $16,005 in revenue in its first year of operation.
There is displayed a giant milk bottle at the Children's Museum in Boston that if it were real could hold 50,000 gallons of milk and 8,620 gallons of cream.
After eating, a housefly regurgitates its food and then eats it again!
The original Toby jugs were modelled on Harry 'Toby' Elwes a Yorkshireman!
Sidewinder snakes move in their peculiar fashion to avoid putting too much of their body area on the hot desert sand.
Turtles can live for more than 100 years.
With few exceptions, birds do not sing while on the ground. They sing during flight or while sitting on an object off the ground.
Actress Sharon Stone's I.Q. is 154 and she is often known to complain that she is fiercely intelligent.
Beethoven, the composer, was deaf.
E-mail has been around longer than the World Wide Web.
Even a small amount of alcohol placed on a scorpion will make it go crazy and sting itself to death.
In 2005, the country of Angola had the highest infant mortality rate in the World with over 187 deaths per 1,000 births.
It is illegal to mispronounce 'Arkansas' while in the state of Arkansas!
A jogger's heel strikes the ground 1,500 times per mile.
Fish that live more than 800 meters below the ocean surface don't have eyes.
La Giaconda is the real name for Mona Lisa.
A Boeing 747s wingspan is longer than the Wright brother's first flight.
The venom in a Daddy Long-Legs spider is more poisonous than the venom of a Black Widow but they cannot bite humans because their fangs are to short.
Coffee beans aren't beans - they're fruit pits.
You might expect that a Great Dane can eat a lot of food. In fact, they can eat up to 8 pounds a day!
Anagram can be used to rearrange the letters of a word, phrase or sentence so as to discover a secret (hidden) message.
The city of Houston, Texas is built on a swamp and is slowly sinking!
The normal static electricty shock that zaps your finger when you touch a doorknob is usually between 10,000 and 30,000 volts!
2 Japanese car brands were named after rice, Toyota and Honda.
DNA was first discovered in 1869 by Swiss Friedrich Mieschler.
A car traveling 100 mph would take more than 29 million years to reach the nearest star.
Whippets can reach a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour.
The Spirit Mound near Vermillion served as a vantage point for Lewis and Clark as they viewed the Prairie Plains.
In 1920, Babe Ruth out-homered every American League team.
The cat was domesticated over 4,000 years ago. Today's house cats are descended from wildcats in Africa and Europe.
There is no solid proof of who built the Taj Mahal.
In Kenya a child's middle name is given based on the time during the day the child is born.
The lifespan of the common goldfish is over 20 years!
The native way to say I love you in Zambia (Chibemba) is Nali ku temwa.
French was the official language of England for over 600 years.
The motto of Georgia is 'Dzala ertobashia' that means Strength is in Unity.
The mother of Michael Nesmith of 'The Monkees' invented whiteout.
Local animals and birds often prepare for sleep or behave confusedly during totality eclipses.
One human hair can support 3kg.
Developed in Egypt about 5,000 years ago, the greyhound breed was known before the ninth century in England, where it was bred by aristocrats to hunt such small game as hares.
Sometimes beavers die because of trees that fall.
Allan Pinkerton, founder of the famous detective agency, died in 1884 when he stumbled, bit his own tongue, and was killed by the resulting gangrene.
160 cars can drive side by side on the Monumental Axis in Brazil, the world's widest road.
India has 50 million monkeys.
On March 18th 1952, the first plastic lens for cataract patients is fitted in Philadelphia.
The New York Stock Exchange started as a coffee shop!
The average CEO's salary in the US is 475 times greater than the average worker's salary. In Japan, it is 11 times greater; in France, 15 times; in Canada, 20; in South Africa, 21, and in Britain, 22.
Adding sugar to coffee is believed to have started in 1715, in the court of King Louis XIV, the French monarch.
The 7 Dwarfs are Happy, Grumpy, Dopey (the beardless one), Doc, Bashful, Sneezy, Sleepy. They were miners.
In all three Godfather films, when you see oranges, there is a death (or a very close call) coming up soon.
John F. Kennedy is the only president to have died before his parents.
The Idiom 'throw the baby out with the bath water' means to get rid of the good parts as well as the bad parts of something when you are trying to improve it.
The average human brain has about 100 billion nerve cells.
71% can drive a stick-shift car.
Snowboarding was invented in the 1960s in Austria.
Contrary to popular belief, dogs do not only sweat by salivating. They also sweat through the poors on their feet.
Albino elephants have always been considered highly by the kings of Thailand.
The quills of a porcupine are soft when they are born.
Before breaking into films, actor Hugh Grant headed a comedy group called the Jockeys of Norfolk.
The native way to say I love you in Cantonese is Ngo oi ney.
Julia Roberts' left eye tears up when she gets nervous.
Inventors John Deere and Cyrus McCormick made their fortunes in Illinois by improving farm machinery.
If Wal-Mart was classified as a country, it would be the 24th most productive country in the world.
Britain is still paying off debts that predate the Napoleonic wars because it's cheaper to do so than buy back the bonds on which they are based.
The average guy will grow about 27 feet of hair out of his face during his lifetime.
Mt. Vesuvius last erupted in 1944, destroying a number of neighboring villages.
The ball on top of a flagpole is called a 'truck'.
200 million people in China live on less than $1 a day.
Catgut comes from sheep not cats.
On an American one-dollar bill, there is an owl in the upper left-hand corner of the '1' encased in the 'shield' and a spider hidden in the front upper right-hand corner.
Ars longa, vita brevis is a common saying in Italy. It means 'art is long, life is short' and reflects the Italian love of leisure.
Italy has a population of over 58 million.
Sea water, loaded with mineral salts, weighs about a pound and a half more per cubit foot than fresh water at the same temperature.
The distress code 'Mayday' comes from the French for help me, M'Aide!
On January 15th 1535 - Henry VIII declares himself head of English Church.
If the chemical sodium is dropped into water it will immediately and violently explode.
A completely blind chameleon will still take on the colors of its environment.
The only words in the English language to contain two 'U's' back to back are: vacuum, residuum, and continuum.
Americans eat six times the amount of protein they actually need in a day.
Soccer games are controlled by referees.
We forget 80 percent of what we learn everyday.
Females learn to talk earlier, use sentences earlier, and learn to read more quickly than males.
In Philadelphia, you can't put pretzels in bags based on an Act of 1760.
Iceland has the highest concentration of broadband users in the world.
The Earth's equatorial circumference (40,075 km) is greater than its polar circumference (40,008 km).
On August 3rd 1930, Chuck Klein of Phillies hits in 26 straight games
From 1942 until the end of World War II, Oscars were made out of plaster to conserve metal. After the war, the winners received 'real' replacement statues.
The number 'four' is considered unlucky in Japan because it is pronounced the same as 'death'.
Rome's nickname is 'The Eternal City'.
The average home creates more pollution than does the average car.
The international telephone dialing code for Antarctica is 672.
A DVD has a about 100 year life span.
Coco Chanel started the trend for Sun tans in 1923 when she got accidentally burnt on a cruise.
Grand Rapids, Michigan was the first city in the US to put fluoride in their water.
The condom - made originally of linen - was invented in the early 1500s.
The stall closest to the door in a bathroom is the cleanest, because it is the least used.
It is estimated that there are approximately ten million bricks in the Empire State Building.
There are 80 entrances to the Colosseum in Rome.
There are no ants in Iceland, Antarctica, and Greenland.
One can cut a pie into 8 pieces with three movements
A pregnant goldfish is called a twit.
Nondairy creamer is flammable.
Al Capone's business card said he was a used furniture dealer.
Edison Was Deaf and He Liked It That Way!
There is a giant mushroom in Oregon that is over 2,400 years old, covers 3.4 square miles of land, and is still growing!
The smallest transistor is 50-nanometres wide - roughly 1/2000 the width of a human hair.
In Japan, 20% of all publications sold are comic books.
The first company to mass produce teddy bears was the Ideal Toy Company.
Hawaiian alphabet has 12 letters.
The Meadows Museum at Southern Methodist University has the most significant collection of Spanish art outside of Spain, featuring art from the 10th through 20th centuries.
There is more real lemon juice in Lemon Pledge furniture polish than in Country Time Lemonade.
Greyhounds have the best eyesight of any breed of dog.
The oldest multicellular fossils date from ~700 million years ago.
Among older men, vanilla is the most erotic smell.
The average lead pencil will draw a line 35 miles long or write approximately 50,000 English words.
70 years ago: The teletype and PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) were invented.
There are approximately 3,500 astronomers in the U.S. - but over 15,000 astrologers.
Minneapolis and Saint Paul became major cities partly thanks to French immigrant engineer Edmund La Croix, a resident of the area who perfected a device to purify white flour in the early 1870s.
George Washington's salary a year was $25,000.
The Olympic motto is Citius, Altius, Fortius wich is Latin and means Faster, Higher, Braver.
Bacterial diseases are Dysentery, Leprosy, Plague and Scarlet Fever .
The 17th-century French Cardinal Mazarin never traveled without his personal chocolate-maker.
Since October 1946, the national anthem of Italy has been Inno de Memeli .
Penguins, ostriches, and dodo birds are all birds that do not fly.
More than half the population of Kenya is under the age of 15.
Pound for pound, leopards are said to be seven times stronger than humans.
Every second over 7,000 Coca-Cola products are consumed.
When snakes are born with two heads, they fight each other for food.
The Wild Turkey is the only bird with a beard.
Until he was 18, Woody Allen read virtually nothing but comic books but did show his writing skills. He sold one-liners for ten cents each to gossip columnists.
The 911 system of emergency communications, now used nationwide, was developed and first used in Lincoln, Nebraska.
Virus can not be killed with antibiotics.
The automobile, Fiat , is one of Italy's greatest products.
At the north pole the Sun is under the horizon for 186 days each year.
A full Moon always rises at sunset.
More than 20 million meteoroids enter Earth's atmosphere every day.
In the 1930's, American track star Jesse Owens used to race against horses and dogs to earn a living.
You blink over 20,000,000 times a year.
The science-fiction series 'Lost in Space' (set in the year 1997) premiered on CBS in 1965.
Kurt G\u0456del (28 April 1906 - 14 January 1978) was a logician, mathematician, and philosopher of mathematics.
Dolphins sleep with one eye open.
Originally Superman couldn't fly.
60% of men and 54% of women have had a 1-night stand.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Brad Pitt posed for a campus calendar in college.
The thermometer was invented in 1607 by Galileo.
Brazil's soccer team is the only team in the world to have won the World Cup 5 times.
You is the second most spoken English word.
The correct response to the Irish greeting, 'Top of the morning to you,' is 'and the rest of the day to yourself'.
George Washington and Thomas Jefferson grew marijuana on their plantations!
Orville Wright numbered the eggs that his chickens produced so he could eat them in the order they were laid.
In Tokyo a bicycle is usually faster than a car for most trips up to 50 minutes.
Most women only washed their hair once a month and used borax or egg yolks for shampoo.
An Athens legislator named Solon passed a law in the 6th century that let fathers sell their fornicating daughters into slavery.
Avocados have more protein than any other fruit.
The Mormon Temple in Salt Lake City took 40 years to complete.
Harry S. Truman was the last U.S. President with no college degree.
India is the leading film making country in the world. More than twice as many films are made in India each year than in France, the third highest film producers in the world.
Michael Jordan was cut from his high school basketball team on his sophomore year.
Sylvia Miles had the shortest performance ever nominated for an Oscar with 'Midnight Cowboy.' Her entire role lasted only six minutes.
Wyoming was the first state to give women the right to vote in 1869.
In York, it is perfectly legal to shoot a Scotsman with a bow and arrow (except on Sundays).
King Henry III of France, Louis XVI of France and Napoleon all suffered from ailurophobia \u2013 fear of cats.
Opera is an Italian creation.
Houdini was the first man to fly a plane solo in Australia.
The Eiffel Tower has 2,500,000 rivets in it.
One in 11 Dallas-area workers is employed by the hospitality industry.
Every major league baseball team in the U.S. buys about eighteen thousand baseballs each season.
A 'jiffy' is a unit of time for 1/100th of a second.
Lee Harvey Oswald's cadaver tag sold at an auction for $6,600 in 1992.
Whales can never focus both their eyes on the same object at once.
Every day is about 55 billionths of a second longer than the day before it.
Racehorses can wear out new horse shoes in one race.
Each February national attention is focused on Punxsutawney, where according to lore the emergence of a groundhog from its burrow predicts the number of weeks remaining of winter.
The only golf course on the island of Tonga has 15 holes, and there's no penalty if a monkey steals your golf ball.
Malcolm X's original name is Malcolm Little.
Cheetah's can accelerate from 0 to 70 km/h in 3 seconds.
Donald Rumsfeld was both the youngest and the oldest defense secretary in US history.
Alabama is the only state with all major natural resources needed to make iron and steel.
A peanut is not a nut. It is a legume.
Statue of Liberty: There are seven rays on her crown, one for each of the seven continents, each measuring up to 9 feet in length and weighing as much as 150 pounds.
The Idiom 'get into deep water' means to become involved in a difficult situation.
22% leave the glob of toothpaste in the sink.
The screwdriver was invented before the screw.
365 different languages are spoken in Indonesia.
The 'pound' key on your keyboard (#) is called an octotroph.
Contrary to popular belief, putting sugar in a car's gas tank will NOT ruin its engine.
Chickens out populate humans 1:4, for every human there are 4 chickens.
Canada is an Indian word meaning 'Big Village'.
Weevils are more resistant to poisons in the morning than at night.
Irving Berlin has never learned to read music or to write it. He hums or sings his songs to a secretary, who takes them down in musical notation.
Isaac Newton, Peter Tchaikovsky and Annie Lennox were all born on Christmas.
More than half of American families with teenagers use filters to limit access to adult content online.
The plastic things on the end of shoelaces are called aglets.
The Australian $5 to $100 notes are made of plastic.
7-11 sells 10,000 pots of coffee an hour, every hour, every day.
Kilauea Volcano in Hawaii is the most active volcano on Earth.
Cost of raising a medium size dog to the age of 11: $6,400.
29% of us ignore RSVP.
Only 30% of stolen artwork worth more than $1,000,000 each is recovered.
The Kodiak, which is native to Alaska, is the largest bear and can measure up to eight feet and weigh as much as 1,700 pounds.
The Italian peninsula is surrounded by five seas (the Adriatic, Ionian, Tyrrhenean, Ligurian, and Mediterranean).
Rome was founded in 753 BC.
Until 1978, Camel cigarettes contained minute particles of real camels.
Humans nose can identify over 10000 different odors.
The onion is named after a Latin word meaning large pearl.
Enrico Caruso and Roy Orbison were the only tenors this century capable of hitting e over high c!
It is impossible to sneeze and keep one's eyes open at the same time.
Originally, Jack-O-Lanterns were made from turnips.
The ten most generous countries are all in Europe.
Martin Van Buren, the eighth president in U.S., was the first president to be born in the United States of America.
The world's largest lizard has its home in Indonesia.
The white part of an egg is the albumen.
The name Alza comes from the name of the founder Alex Zaffaroni.
44.9% pee in the ocean.
One beaver can cut down as many as 216 trees per year.
The Roman Catholic Church did not acknowledge that the earth revolves around the Sun until the mid 1990's.
Your system of blood vessels is over 60,000 miles long. That's long enough to go around the world more than twice!
Einstein Was a Fat Baby with Large Head.
The more concentrated you get the less you blink.
During the chariot scene in 'Ben Hur,' a small red car can be seen in the distance.
A group of kangaroos is called a mob.
The Great Lakes are Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, Lake Superior, Lake Erie and Lake Ontario.
Albert Einstein never knew how to drive a car.
Before he became an actor, Sam Shepard wrote more than 40 plays, winning 10 Obies and a Pulitzer Prize.
In its six years of operation, the Hubble Space Telescope has observed approximately 8000 objects, which is roughly equivalent to the number of stars that can be seen from the surface of Earth with the naked eye.
In London the average tourist is being caught on surveillance cameras about 300 times a day.
The japanese smiley m( _ _ )m means Apologies/thank you.
Kermit the Frog is left-handed.
14% of us eat the watermelon seeds.
The early stage names of Sonny and Cher were 'Cleo and Caesar'.
Dolphins have bigger brains than the brains of humans.
A bear has 42 teeth.
Unlike dogs, pigs, and some other mammals, humans cannot taste water. They taste only the chemicals and impurities in the water.
Orangutans warn people to stay out of their territory by belching.
72% of Americans sign their pets' names on greeting cards they send out.
Before succeeding in the movie industry, director James Cameron was a school bus driver.
It is illegal to hunt camels in the state of Arizona.
Blue and white are the most common school colors.
Kidney stones come in any colorfrom yellow to brown.
Just twenty seconds worth of fuel remained when Apollo 11's lunar module landed on the Moon.
Jim Gordon, drummer of Derek and the Dominos ('Layla'), killed his mother with a claw hammer.
A 63 year old female schoolteacher was the first person to go over the Falls in a barrel and survive.
The state motto of Alaska is 'north to the future'.
The native way to say I love you in Amharic is Afekrishalehou.
Bubble gum contains rubber.
A full bladder is roughly the size of a soft ball.
The Idiom 'You can lead a horse to water (but you can't make him/it drink)' means you can give someone the opportunity to do something, but you cannot force them to do it if they do not want to.
The 1st buffalo ever born in captivity was born at Chicago's Lincoln Park Zoo in 1884.
Edinburgh is built on an extinct volcano.
Billboard magazine has recently launched a top 20 chart of cell phone ringtones.
Some asteroids have other asteroids orbiting them.
The average cost of a Japanese wedding including a honey-moon is about $40,000.
The age limit for marriage in France was, until recently, 15 for girls, but 18 for boys. The age for girls was raised to 18 in 2006.
Dachshunds are the smallest breed of dog used for hunting. They are low to the ground, which allows them to enter and maneuver through tunnels easily.
For every gallon of sea water, you get more than a quarter pound of salt.
The weight of air in a milk glass is about the same as the weight of an aspirin tablet.
A typical bed usually houses over 6 billion dust mites.
Humans share about 50% of their DNA with bananas.
Approximately 25,000 workers died during the building of the Panama Canal, and approximately 20,000 of them contracted malaria and yellow fever.
The US has about 9 billion chickens. China has more than 13 billion.
Pinocchio was made of pine.
There are more living organisms on the skin of a single human being than there are human beings on the surface of the earth.
The Warner brothers began their careers in western Pennsylvania.
Inventor Thomas A. Edison maintained a winter home and laboratory in Fort Myers.
Only 11 percent of the earth's surface is used to grow food.
Italy's unemployment rate is around 8.6%, but it is as high as 20% in the more impoverished south.
You're born with 300 bones, but by the time you become an adult, you only have 206.
Mars looks red because it's covered by rust.
The Earth is slowing down.
The diameter of one main cable on Golden Gate Bridge is 0.92 m.
In Athens, Greece, a driver's license can be taken away by law if the driver is deemed either unbathed or poorly dressed.
A person afflicted with hexadectylism has six fingers or six toes on one or both hands and feet.
The world's smallest mammal is the bumblebee bat of Thailand, weighing less than a penny.
Einstein was a Ladies' Man.
The largest cabbage weighed 144 pounds.
The ZIP in 'ZIP code' means Zoning Improvement Plan.
The hamburger was invented in 1900 by Louis Lassen. He ground beef, broiled it, and served it between two pieces of toast.
In 1838 the Boston & West Worcester Railroad was the first railroad to charge commuter fares.
The earliest cockroach fossils are about 280 million years old.
Among dogs officially registered with kennel clubs in the U.S., Labrador Retrievers are the most popular breed followed by Rottweilers and German Shepherds.
The longest chapter in the Bible is Psalm 119, which is 176 verses.
The first time a Rugby team from Wales toured in South Africa was in 1964.
Wisconsin is among the nation's leaders in production of dairy products and is sometimes called America's Dairyland.
Ice-cream cones were first served in 1904 at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition world's fair in St. Louis.
Any space vehicle must move at a rate of 7 miles per second in order to escape the Earth's gravitational pull.
63,000 square miles of Rainforests are being destroyed each year.
People who ride on roller coasters have a higher chance of having a blood clot in the brain.
The 'Big Dipper' is known as 'The Casserole' in France.
Residents of Houston, Texas lead the U.S. in eating out \u2013 approximately 4.6 times per week.
The average Italian consumes half a pound of bread a day.
In the 1840s the potato famine drove many Irish to Massachusetts, and they eventually became the state's largest ethnic group.
Navajo Community College in Tsaile, was the first college on an Indian reservation.
In the 40's, the Bich pen was changed to Bic for fear that Americans would pronounce it 'Bitch'.
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada has the most bars per capita than anywhere else in the world.
The lungs contain over 300,000 million capillaries (tiny blood vessels). If they were laid end to end, they would stretch 2400km (1500 miles).
The Malaspina Glacier, at the foot of Mount Saint Elias, covers an area larger than Rhode Island.
An ant can survive for up to two days underwater.
Hummingbirds are the only animals able to fly backwards.
The 1st feature-length animated film, released by Disney Studios in 1937, was 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.'.
The average bra size today is 36C. Ten years ago it was 34B.
A woodchuck breathes only ten times per hour while hibernating, while an active woodchuck breathes 2,100 times an hour.
Women's hair is about half the diameter of men's hair.
Al Gore coined the phrase 'information super highway'
The parachute was invented by DiVinci in 1515.
Pollen never deteriorates. It is one of the few natural substances that lasts indefinitely.
The Falkland Isles (pop. about 2000) has over 700000 sheep (350 per person).
Susan Lucci is the daughter of Phyllis Diller.
You can use pinecones to forecast the weather--the scales will close when rain is on the way.
Bullet proof vests, fire escapes, windshield wipers and laser printers were all invented by women.
The first McDonald's restaurant in Canada was in Richmond, British Columbia.
Almonds are members of the peach family.
The human eye blinks an average of 4,200,000 times a year.
The longest word in the English language with no vowels is Rhythms!
Tennis was originally played with bare hands.
Due to the natural 'momentum' of the ocean, saltwater fish cannot swim backwards.
Leonardo Da Vinci invented the scissors, the helicopter, and many other present day items.
The native way to say I love you in Zimbabwe is Ndinokuda.
Hummingbirds can weigh less than a penny!
On January 10th 1969 USSR's Venera 6 was launched for parachute landing on Venus.
The people of France eat more cheese than any other country in the world.
The biggest hippo-tooth ever found was one meter long
6% propose over the phone.
Historic Saint Marys Georgia is the second oldest city in the nation.
The native way to say I love you in Irish (see Gaelic also) is taim i' ngra leat.
If you suspend three grains of sand in a large sports arena, such as Madison Square Garden in New York, the arena will be more closely packed with sand than our galaxy is with stars.
Four Corners is the spot in the United States where a person can stand in four states at the same time.
More wool comes from the state of Texas than any other state in the United States.
Giraffes have no vocal cords.
You would have to milk 260 cows for an entire year to fill a space shuttle's external fuel tank with 529,000 gallons of milk.
England is smaller than New England.
The oil used by jewelers to lubricate clocks and watches costs about $3,000 a gallon.
Right-handed people live, on average, nine years longer than left-handed people do.
Neil Armstrong stepped on the Moon with his left foot first.
Italy is home to two microstates, San Marino and Vatican City .
The native way to say I love you in Kurdish is Ez te hezdikhem.
The molecular structure of DNA was first determined by Watson and Crick in 1953.
Europe is the only continent without a desert.
2,500 newborn babies will be dropped in the next month.
30% of us refuse to sit on a public toilet seat.
Hitler ordered tanks to be made in Michigan and told the company to not worry about sending them to Germany, he'd 'pick them up on his way through Detroit.
Lightning sets about 10,000 forest fires every year in the United States.
In the Scottish Hebrides, an island is defined as being an islandonly if it is big enough to sustain 1 sheep.
When sharks take a bite, their eyes roll back and their teeth jut out.
Actor Kurt Russell once played minor league baseball for two years before tearing a shoulder muscle.
The city of Gillette has the largest High School in the state (Campbell County High School).
The native way to say I love you in Greek is S' ayapo
Some 160,000 people attempt suicide every year in France.
Hurricane Beulah moved into South Texas, and torrential rains from the hurricane turned the rich agricultural areas of South Texas into a large lake. Beulah also spawned a record 115 tornadoes.
The cheetah is the only cat in the world that can't retract its claws.
On February 9th 1969 Boeing 747 made its 1st commercial flight.
St. Augustine, Florida is the oldest city in the US.
The only 15 letter word that can be spelled without repeating a letter is 'uncopyrightable'!
In Chinese the words for crisis and opportunity are the same.
In 1872, a virus epidemic killed a quarter of all the horses in the United States.
If you rearrange the words 'Osama Bin Laden' you can spell 'An Islam bad one'
Laikia, a dog, was the world's first ever space astronaut. She was sent into space in an artificial earth satellite in 1957 by the Russian government.
Your teeth start developing (in your gums) 6 months before you are born.
Demi Moore, who has earned up to 20 million per movie, first found work as a bill collector.
The fastest swimmer of all fish is the swordtail.
Panspermia is the idea that life on the Earth originated on another planet.
90% of Canada's 31,000,000 citizens live within 100 miles of the U.S. border.
A healthy person has 6,000 million, million, million haemoglobin molecules.
Julia Roberts is the highest paid actress in film history.
An adult female mosquito consumes about 5-millionths of a liter of blood in a single meal.
In 1983, Arkansas becomes the first state to require teachers to pass a basic skills test.
Treasure Valley, around Nampa, is known as Idaho's Banana Belt.
Sugar was first added to chewing gum in 1869 by a dentist, William Semple.
An apple, onion, and potato all have the same taste. The differences in flavor are caused by their smell. To prove this you can pinch your nose and take a bite from each. They will all taste sweet.
There are 10 human body parts that are only 3 letters long (eye hip arm leg ear toe jaw rib lip gum).
For the blockbuster movie The Terminator, O.J. Simpson was considered to play the role of the Terminator, but producers rejected him as they thought he would not be taken seriously.
In Massachusetts, It is illegal to go to bed without first having a full bath.
The feet account for one quarter of all the human bodies bones.
The best-value consumer purchase in terms of the price and usage is an electric kettle.
In September 2004, a Minnesota state trooper issued a speeding ticket to a motorcyclist who was clocked at 205 mph.
Taco is Spanish for 'plug'.
It takes the Where's Waldo artist one month to complete a drawing.
65% of Utah's land is owned by the Federal Government.
The Pope's been known to wear red Prada shoes.
Humans and dolphins are the only species that have sex for pleasure. Is that why Flipper was always smiling.
The hummingbird is the only bird that can fly backwards.
Argon is used to fill the space in most light bulbs. Neon is used in fluorescent signs. Fluorescent lights are filled with mercury gas.
A square piece of dry paper cannot be folded in half more than 7 times.
Men laugh longer, louder, and more often than women.
The lion costume in the film Wizard of Oz was made from real lions.
Bread is baked at temperatures as high as 400 degrees Fahrenheit! That kind of heat can kill an adult in less than one minute.
The word 'trinity' is not mentioned in the Bible.
In 1899 Charles Fey invented a slot machine named the Liberty Bell. The device became the model for all slots to follow.
The Idiom 'test the water/waters' means to try to discover what people think about an idea before you do anything about it, or to try to discover what a situation is really like before you become very involved in it.
Thomas Edison, light bulb inventor, was afraid of the dark.
A jumbo jet uses 4,000 gallons of fuel to take off.
Snails can sleep for 3 years without eating.
A grizzly bear give birth while in their winter sleep.
On August 3rd 1933 Yanks are shut out for 1st time after 308 games.
In the middle ages, people would pin the name of their sweetheart to their sleeve on Valentine's Day and keep it there for a week, hence 'wearing their heart on their sleeve'.
Ginger has been clinically demonstrated to work twice as well as Dramamine for fighting motion sickness, with no side effects.
In ancient times, Aztecs gave medicine for kidney problems with the left hand, and medicine for liver problems with the right hand.
Galleria Dallas offers more than 200 premier retail stores and is home to the country's tallest Christmas tree.
Castor oil is used as a lubricant in jet planes.
43.7% of all statistics are made up right on the spot.
When immersed in liquid, a dead sparrow will make a sound like a crying baby.
President Bush and Saddam Hussein both have their shoes made by the same Italian shoemaker!
Ozzy Osbourne was trying to bite the head off a bat in concert when the bat decided to bite back.
During the Gold Rush in 1849, some people paid as much as $100 for a glass of water!
In litt (in litteris) is the Latin word for in correspondence
The typical American child receives 70 new toys a year, most of them during the holiday season.
Ancient Romans at one time used human urine as an ingredient in their toothpaste.
Pumpkin rule of thumb: the darker the shell, the longer the pumpkin lasts.
Enrico Fermi, inventor of the nuclear reactor, was an Italian.
Niagara Falls supplies 10% of all the electric power for New York State.
The first hard drive available for the Apple II had a capacity of only 5 megabytes.
Whale oil was used in automobile transmissions as late as 1973.
The animal with the largest brain in relation to its body is the ant.
Black olives contain on average 10 to 30% more oil than green olives.
Koalas sleep an average of 22 hours a day, two hours more than the sloth.
If a statue in the park of a person on a horse has both front legs in the air, the person died in battle; if the horse has one front leg in the air, the person died as a result of wounds received in battle; if the horse has all four legs on the ground, the person died of natural causes.
A recent study at Harvard has shown that eating chocolate can actually help you live longer!
The largest telescope in the world is currently being constructed in northern Chile. The telescope will utilize four - 26 ft. 8 in. (8.13 meters) mirrors which will gather as much light as a single 52 ft. 6 in. (16 meters) mirror.
Every Swiss citizen is required by law to have a bomb shelter or access to a bomb shelter.
Bacterias usually have tiny flagella (a tail like appendage that they use to swim around in their environment).
Every workday, 6.7 million people commute to Manhattan!
Nova Scotia is Latin for 'New Scotland'.
Human thigh bones are stronger than concrete.
Earth's rotation on its axis makes a day at 24 hours.
Sweden is the largest spender on ketchup.
Snails breathe through their feet.
Nevada was made famous by the discovery of the fabulous Comstock Lode in 1859. Its mines have produced large quantities of gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, mercury, barite, and tungsten.
At - 40 degrees Centigrade a person loses about 14.4 calories per hour by breathing.
In some Asian countries, the family name is written first and the individual name written second.
Termites eat wood twice as fast when listening to heavy metal music.
Van Camp's Pork and Beans were a staple food for Union soldiers in the Civil War.
The Greeks believed that the Sun was abandoning the earth during an eclipse.
In Salem, Massachesetts sleeping in the nude in a rented room is forbidden, even for married couples.
1% of the worlds water is found in clouds, precipitation (rain and snow), rivers, ponds, lakes and underground water.
Your heart beats over 100,000 times a day.
St. Francis of Assissi and Saint Caterina of Siena are the patron saints of Italy.
The creator of the NIKE Swoosh symbol was paid only $35 for the design.
Porcupines are excellent swimmers, because their quills are hollow.
In Natoma, Kansas, it's illegal to throw knives at men wearing striped suits.
A golf balls can reach speeds up to about 170 miles an hour.
The Japanese liquor, Mam, uses venomous snakes as one of its main ingredients.
The official year in Thailand starts from 543 BC. 2005 is official the year 2548.
Zanzibar is the only place where you will find the Kirk's Red Colobus monkey.
If the population of China walked past you in single file, the line would never end because of the rate of reproduction.
Coca-Cola would be green if coloring weren't added to it.
On average, it takes 660 days from conception for an elephant to give birth.
Alaska's name comes from the Eskimo word Alakshak, meaning great lands or peninsula.
Insomniacs may move as many as seventy times.
A blue whale's heart is the size of a Volkswagen Beetle!
In Australia, Burger King is called Hungry Jack's.
A large sunspot can last for about a week.
The native way to say I love you in Yugoslavian is Ja te volim.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about one pounce in three results in a catch.
Portsmouth is home to the oldest schoolhouse in the United States. The school was built in 1716.
Napoleon was terrified of cats.
Polar Bears trying to blend in with the ice will sometimes cover up their black nose with their paws.
The first inductees to the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1961 were Jimmie Rodgers, Fred Rose and Hank Williams.
The largest body of fresh water in the world is Lake Superior.
The number of US college students studying Latin is three times the number studying Arabic.
11% of the world is left-handed.
Drivers kill more deer than hunters.
Macaroni, Gentoo, Chinstrap and Emperor are types of penguins.
A seagull drinks salt water because it has special glands that filter out the salt.
Each year in America there are about 300,000 deaths that can be attributed to obesity.
The Carousel Museum contains the world's largest collection of carousel horses.
The symbol on the 'pound' key (#) is called an octothorpe.
Any modern jet is capable of breaking the sound barrier.
According to the film Fahrenheit 9/11 George Bush Sr. Was sitting in a room with bin Laden's brother on the day that 9/11 happened.
The color of the pyramids were originally white but over the years the color has changed.
A father sea catfish keeps the eggs of his young in his mouth until they are ready to hatch. He will not eat until his young are born, which may take several weeks.
China is the world's largest market for BMW's top of the line 760Li. This car sells for $200,000 in China - more than almost all people in China make in a lifetime.
The Pantheon is the largest building from ancient Rome that survives intact.
There are more than 600 million telephone lines today, yet almost half the world's population has never made a phone call.
Half of all bank robberies take place on a Friday.
Acid rain start as regular rain. It becomes acid when it falls through clouds of pollution.
Antarctica is the only continent without reptiles or snakes.
It snows more in the Grand Canyon than it does in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
A cat's tongue consists of small 'hooks,' which come in handy when tearing up food.
A shark is the only fish that can blink with both eyes.
About 1/3 of American adults are at least 20% above their recommended weight.
In Peninsular Malaysia, more tree species are found in 125 acres of Tropical Forest than in the entire North America.
Honey is the only natural food that is made without destroying any kind of life.
The turbot fish lays approximately 14 million eggs during its lifetime.
Dreamt is the only English word that ends in the letters 'mt'.
The most pushups ever performed in one day was 46,001.
While 7 men in 100 have some form of color blindness, only 1 woman in 1,000 suffers from it.
South Africa has the highest number of AIDS deaths per year, with an estimated 370,000 dying in 2003 alone.
The Sun looks 1600 times fainter from Pluto than it does from the Earth.
IBM's motto is 'Think'. Apple later made their motto 'Think different'.
An owl's eyes are bigger than its brain.
Actress Sandra Bullock's mother is a European opera singer.
27% admit to cheating on a test or quiz.
In Tokyo, they sell toupees for dogs.
In Bhutan government policy is based on Gross National Happiness; thus most street advertising is banned, as are tobacco and plastic bags.
Eskimos have over 15 words for the English word of 'Snow'.
The hair of an adult man or woman can stretch 25 percent of its length without breaking.
In 1960, an estimated 4,000 people were over 100 years old in the U.S. By 1995 the number had jumped to : 55,000.
The Netherlands has built about 800 miles of massive dikes and sea walls to hold back the sea.
In 2015, it is estimated that half the federal budget will be spent on programs for the elderly.
At the first World Cup championship in Uruguay, 1930, the soccer balls were actually monkey skulls wrapped in paper and leather.
15 percent of Americans secretly bite their toes.
Cows can detect odors up to five miles away.
Indonesia is the world's most populated Muslim nation.
Switzerland is the only country with a square flag.
The human body is comprised of 80% water.
Wearing yellow makes you look bigger on camera; green, smaller.
In Europe coffee was once known as Arabian Wine
When glass breaks, the cracks move at speeds of up to 3,000 miles per hour.
The Spanish word esposa means 'wife.' The plural, esposas, means 'wives,' but also 'handcuffs'.
A female ferret will die if it goes into heat and cannot find a mate.
A mother hen turns over her egg about 50 times each day.
Contrary to popular belief, there are almost no Buddhists in India, nor have there been for about a thousand years.
On August 17th 1978 the 1st manned balloon crossed the Atlantic Ocean (Eagle II).
Involuntary bad language, a symptom affecting about one in 10 people with Tourette's syndrome, is called 'coprolalia'.
February 1865 is the only month in recorded history not to have a full moon.
The native way to say I love you in Gujarati (dialect of India) is Tane Prem Karoo Choo.
The only 2 animals that can see behind itself without turning its head are the rabbit and the parrot.
Is bottled water worth it? 'Evian' spelled backwards is 'naive'.
Walt Disney, the creator of Mickey Mouse, was afraid of mice.
In West Virginia if you run over an animal, you can legally take it home and cook it for dinner!
Wyoming was acquired as part of the Louisiana Purchase in 1803.
Some reconstituted tobacco contains the same ingredients found in a fart.
In 1939, the Packard Motor Car Company in Detroit manufactured the first air-conditioned car.
About 10% of U.S. households pay their bills in cash.
Hair is the fastest growing tissue in the body, second only to bone marrow.
Number of people who starved to death in 1997: 20,000,000.
80 years ago: The food mixer and the domestic refrigerator were invented.
The Pittsburgh Steelers were originally called the Pirates.
The integrated circuit computer chip was invented in 1958 in Dallas.
A gray fox can climb trees.
Urine from male cape water buffaloes is so flammable that some tribes use it for lantern fuel.
World's heaviest primates: morbidly obese humans. After that: gorillas at 485 lbs.
Marlboro cigarettes sold in New York contain more tar and nicotine than those sold in all other states!
In 1924, Pope Urban VIII threatened to excommunicate snuff users.
Vermont's largest employer is IBM.
4.5 million people have their health 'adversely affected' by air pollutants each year.
Almost a quarter of the land area of Los Angeles is taken up by automobiles.
71% of office workers stopped on the street for a survey agreed to give up their computer passwords in exchange for a chocolate bar.
The native way to say I love you in French is Je t'aime
In 1859 abolitionist John Brown led a raid on a national armory at Harpers Ferry in an attempt to secure weapons for a planned slave rebellion.
Arnold Schwarzenegger's voice, in the movie 'Hercules', was dubbed.
The largest NFL stadium is the Pontiac Silverdome in Detroit, Michigan.
Tamiflu's main natural ingredient is Chinese star anise.
The Hoover Dam was built to last 2,000 years. Its concrete will not be fully cured for another 500 years.
The warmest temperature ever recorded on Antarctica was 3 degrees F.
Oak trees are struck by lightning more than any other tree.
The Cuban Olympic boxer Teofilo Stevenson is born on March 23rd 1952.
The first postage stamp to commemorate Christmas was issued in Austria in 1937.
Tom Cruise started wearing braces in 2002. He removes them during filming.
Japan is one of the best recycling countries in the world.
The native way to say I love you in Scot Gaelic is Tha gradh agam ort.
On the day that Alexander Graham Bell was buried the entire US telephone system was shut down for 1 minute in tribute.
Domain names are being registered at a rate of more than one million names every month.
The starfish species, Porcellanaster ivanovi, has been found to live in water as deep as 24,881 feet (7,584 meters).
There is a rare condition called Exploding Head Syndrome which you have probably never heard of.
Until babies are six months old, they can breathe and swallow at the same time. Indeed convenient!
The car in the foreground on the back of a $10 bill is a 1925 Hupmobile.
On 5th October 1974, four years, three months and sixteen days after Dave Kunste set out from Minnesota, he became the first man to walk around the world, having taken more than 20 million steps.
Chocolate affects a dog's heart and nervous system; a few ounces will kill a small sized dog.
22% of us skip lunch daily.
If your skin is laid flat it will cover an area of 18 square feet.
During the 1600's, boys and girls in England wore dresses until they were about seven years old.
Friends star Luke Perry was originally Coy Luther Perry but changed to Luke after the character in his favourite movie, Cool Hand Luke.
In 1962, the Mashed Potato, the Loco-Motion, the Frug, the Monkey, and the Funky Chicken were popular dances.
Footprints of astronauts who landed on the Moon should last at least 10 million years since the Moon has no atmosphere.
If a person has two thirds of their liver removed through trauma or surgery, it will grow back to the original size in four weeks time.
Statue of Liberty: The Statue has a 35-foot waistline.
Idiom differs from the figures of speech (for example, irony, sarcasm, metaphor) and other linguistic variants that are used in the English language (euphemism, colloquialism, analogy, allegory, allusion, jargon, slang).
Aluminum used to be more valuable than gold!
In Australia, Canberra wins the title of the 'foggiest' capital city with an average of 47 fogs each year.
German Shepherds bite humans more than any other breed of dog.
More people are afraid of open spaces (kenophobia) than of tight spaces (claustrophobia).
If you ate too many carrots you would turn orange.
An average human scalp has 100,000 hairs.
80% of the world's fresh water is locked up as ice or snow.
French author Michel Thaler published a 233 page novel which has no verbs.
The wife of a Sultan is called a Sultana.
Hyenas regularly eat the feces of other animals!
Alfred Hitchcock didn't have a belly button.
More than 25% of the world's forests are in Siberia.
A French climber, by the nickname Spiderman, has climbed the tallest building in the world.
The shell constitutes 12 percent of an egg's weight.
Karate actually originated in India, but was developed further in China.
About a third of all Americans flush the toilet while they're still sitting on it.
We lose half a litre of water a day through breathing.
The 'vintage date' on a bottle of wine indicates the year the grapes were picked, not the year of bottling!
Iron weighs more after it rusts.
President George W. Bush and Playboy founder Hugh Hefner are cousins!
The average Italian consumes 25 kilograms of pasta a year.
US presidents who have been assassinated: Abraham Lincoln in 1865, James A. Garfield in 1881, William H. McKinley in 1901, and John F. Kennedy in 1963.
The heart of giraffe is two feet long, and can weigh as much as twenty four pounds.
Each rubber molecule is made of 65,000 individual atoms.
The last London smog occurred in 1962.
'Zorro' means 'fox' in Spanish.
Arthur Eldred became the first Eagle Scout in May 1912, in Oceanside.
Maine is the only state (in USA) whose name is just one syllable.
Goulash, a beef soup, originated in Hungary in the 9th century AD.
Tens of thousands of Ugandans reported that they had seen and heard a talking tortoise in 1978.
James Garfield, the 20th President, was the first left-handed President.
The 1st kiss in a movie was between May Irwin and John Rice in 'The Widow Jones,' in 1896.
Some years up to about 100 people die of poison from the highly toxic fish called fugu
In Great Britain , People can offend the Englishmen without even knowing it. To point with your palm in, is considered the same as 'showing the finger'. To order a beer gets a whole new meaning!
Italian farms produce grapes, potatoes, sugar beets, soybeans, grain, olives, beef, and dairy.
Mel Gibson has a horseshoe kidney (two kidneys fused into one)!
Before 1850 golf balls were made of leather and stuffed with feathers.
Joseph Niepce developed the world's first photographic image in 1827.
The weather word altitude means Height expressed above sea level or ground level.
In 1869 a Philadelphia garment worker, Uriah S. Stephens, helped found one of the first major national labor unions, the Knights of Labor.
A small airplane can fly backwards.
William Butler Yeats wrote his most important poems between the age of 50 and 75.
Sound at the right vibration can bore holes through a solid object.
At the end of World War 1 the average price for a gallon of gasoline was 25 cents. Thirty years later the average price had risen only to 26 cents a gallon.
The internet slang AFAICT means 'as far as I can tell'.
The lucky numbers of the rooster is: 1, 5, 6, 12, 15, 16, 24 & 51
6.7 million people commute to Manhattan daily !
Woodpecker scalps, porpoise teeth and giraffe tails have all been used as money.
Out of all the senses, smell is most closely linked to memory.
Gold will never erode.
The United States has never lost a war when donkeys were used.
The estimated number of M&M's sold each day in the United States is 200,000,000.
Ralph Lauren's original name is Ralph Lifshitz.
Bill Clinton IQ Score 137.
Jimmy Hoffa's middle name is, appropriately, Riddle.
In 1980, there was only one country in the world with no telephones - Bhutan.
In the great fire of London in 1666 half of London was burnt down but only 6 people were injured.
In a desert, a mirage is caused when air near the ground is hotter than air higher up. As light from the Sun passes from cooler to warmer air, it speeds up and is refracted upward, creating the image of water.
Every human spent about half an hour as a single cell.
Hypnotism is banned by public schools in San Diego.
Italy's biggest trading partners are Germany, France, the United States, and Great Britain.
Arizona, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Hawaii and Alaska hadn't been admitted to the Union yet.
Mexico City is sinking at a rate of 18 inches per year!
An American Animal Hospital Association poll showed that 33 percent of dog owners admit that they talk to their dogs on the phone or leave messages on an answering machine while away.
More than 100 pizza box-related patents have been issued since 1976!
Banana oil never saw a banana; it's made from petroleum.
The states of Washington and Montana still execute prisoners by hanging.
King Ramkhamhaeng created the first Thai alphabet in thirteenth century.
In the 1970's, the typical age range of people who Gamble was 30-55. Today, it is age 17-70.
The world's youngest parents were 8 and 9 and lived in China in 1910.
37% claim to know how to use all the features on their VCR.
The word 'Lord' appears 1855 times in the Bible.
Singapore only has one train station.
Tablecloths were originally meant to be served as towels with which dinner guests could wipe their hands and faces after eating!
The distance traveled by light in one year is approximately six million miles.
The first killer tornado of record in October in Connecticut destroyed sixteen vintage aircraft at the Bradley Air Museum in Windsor Locks. The tornado damaged more than one hundred homes causing 200 million dollars damage. Three persons were killed, and 500 others were injured.
In the U.S., the milk production per dairy cow is approximately 12,000 pounds.
Aerosmith's 'Dude Looks Like a Lady' was written about Vince Neil of Motley Crue.
Studies have shown that classical music helps cows produce more milk.
Large doses of coffee can be lethal. Ten grams, or 100 cups over 4 hours, can kill the average human.
Publishers have coined the term 'Brownsploitation' for the rash of books that have sprung up in the wake of Dan Brown's Da Vinci Code blockbuster.
Bluegrass music originated in Bristol, in northeastern Tennessee.
Baskin Robbins once made ketchup ice cream.
The temperature in Antarctica plummets as low as -35 degrees celsius.
A 30-minute cartoon may contain over 18,000 separate drawings.
Dragonflies can fly at up to 30 mph.
The Lone Ranger's 'real' name is John Reid.
In ten minutes, a hurricane releases more energy than all the world's nuclear weapons combined!
Some of the Squares in London are not really squares
By the year 2012 there will be approximately 17 billion devices connected to the Internet.
The US city with the highest murder rate is Detroit, with 45.3 homicides per 100,000 people.
Polo was played for the first time in the United States in 1876 near Newport.
The Pacific Ocean contains about 25,000 islands.
The Canary Islands were not named for a bird called a canary. They were named after a breed of large dogs. The Latin name was Canariae insulae - 'Island of Dogs'.
Beetles taste like apples, wasps like pine nuts, and worms like fried bacon.
Only two in one thousand diamonds are considered truly colorless.
The first electronic digital computer (called ENIAC - the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Calculator) was developed in 1946 and contained over 18,000 vacuum tubes.
Before her success as a comedienne, Ellen degeneres consider becoming a professional golfer.
There is actually no danger in swimming right after you eat, though it may feel uncomfortable.
Sir Francis Drake was the first capitain to circumnavigate the world on September 26, 1580.
Isaac Asimov is the only author to have a book in every Dewey-decimal category.
The Pentagon has twice as many restrooms as necessary. When it was built, segregation was still in place in Virginia, so separate restrooms for blacks and whites were required by law.
Actress Annette Bening cooked on a charter boat for a year to help pay for college.
The hottest planet in the solar system is Venus, with an estimated surface temperature of 864 F (462 C).
If two flies were left to reproduce without predators or other limitations for one year, the resulting mass of flies would be the size of the Earth.
The Good News: You are 96% more likely to a die a natural death. The Bad News: You are still going to die.
Italy did not become a united country until 1861.
Inside the earth it gets 3 degrees hotter every 100m further down.
Barbers at one time combined shaving and haircutting with bloodletting and pulling teeth. The white stripes on a field of red that spiral down a barber pole represent the bandages used in the bloodletting.
Italian is a Romance language and is related to the other Latin languages: Spanish, French, Portuguese and Romanian.
If your eyes are six feet above the surface of the ocean, the horizon will be about three statute miles away.
A town in Texas is called 'Ding Dong'.
A group of tigers is called a streak.
Japan is the largest exporter of frog's legs.
One third of the land in the United States is owned by the government.
Afghanistan has been known by different names including Ariana, Bactria and Khorasan.
There are 45 miles of nerves in the skin of a human being.
By the time he was twelve years old, Daniel Boone was already an expert hunter and trapper.
It takes 8 minutes 17 seconds for light to travel from the Sun's surface to the Earth.
Toto was paid $125 per week while filming the 'Wizard of Oz'.
The average life of a taste bud is 10 days.
Milwaukee's Summerfest is the nation's largest music festival, with over 2,500 performers.
The average city dog lives three years longer than the average country dog.
In Elizabethan England the spoon was such a novelty, such a prized rarity, that people carried their own folding spoons to banquets.
The Great Sphinx of Egypt, one of the wonders of ancient Egyptian architecture, adjoins the pyramids of Giza and has a length of 240 ft. Built in the fourth dynasty, it is approximately 4,500 years old. A 10-year, $2.5 million restoration project was completed in 1998.
18% of an Americans income is spent on transportation.
The Idiom 'spend money like water' means if someone spends money like water, they spend too much
The cruise liner Queen Elizabeth 2 moves only six inches for each gallon of diesel fuel that it burns.
The left leg of a chicken in more tender than the right one.
Maryland is home to 10 different kinds of bats.
Liquid air looks like water with a bluish tint.
The name Adobe came from name of the river Adobe Creek that ran behind the houses of founders John Warnock and Chuck Geschke.
For Stephen King's 'Cujo' (1983), five St. Bernards were used, one mechanical head, and an actor in a dog costume to play the title character.
The Spider Monkey offspring are dependent on their mothers for the first 2 to 3 years, with the females giving birth every 3 to 4 years.
Camels chew in a figure 8 pattern.
Nicolas Cage started life as Nicholas Coppola, but changed it to disassociate himself with famous film director Uncle Francis Ford Coppola. The name 'Cage' came from the comic book character 'Luke Cage'.
Only eight men were killed in the battle of Lexington!
The common goldfish is the only animal that can see both infra-red and ultra-violet light.
Gorillas can catch human colds and other illnesses.
The average distance between stars in the spiral arms of the Milky Way galaxy is currently estimated to be seven light years, or sixty-six trillion kilometers. This distance is equal to roughly 443,000 times the distance between the Earth and Sun.
22,000 checks will be deducted from the wrong bank accounts in the next hour.
When Bugs Bunny first appeared in 1935, he was called Happy Rabbit.
If the government has no knowledge of aliens, then why does Title 14, Section 1211 of the.
An African Grey Parrot can live approximately 50 years.
Captain Kirk never said 'Beam me up, Scotty,' but he did say, 'Beam me up, Mr. Scott'.
A pineapple is a berry.
Elephant seals can dive to a depth of about 5000ft.
Moscow weathermen can be fined for inaccurate weather forecasting!
Bob Dylan's real name is Robert Zimmerman.
In ancient Greece 'idiot' meant a private citizen or layman.
Microsoft writes the code for autopilot systems in all major airplanes.
It would take twenty new mid-size cars to generate the same amount of pollution that a mid-size 1960's car did.
Leather skin does not have any smell. The leather smell that you sense is actually derived from the materials used in the tanning process.
Hurricane Andrew, which ripped through southeastern Florida in August 1992, killed 41 people and caused property damages in excess of $20 billion.
Sir Isaac Newton was only 23 years old when he discovered the law of universal gravitation.
The smile is the most frequently used facial expression. A smile can use anywhere from a pair of 5 to 53 facial muscles.
The words 'race car,' 'kayak' and 'level' are the same whether they are read left to right or right to left.
Stannous fluoride, which is the cavity fighter found in toothpaste is made from recycled tin.
Flamingos pee on their legs to cool themselves off.
48% of astronauts experience motion sickness.
Sliced bread was introduced under the Wonder Bread label in 1930.
Brides 'always' get married in red colors in China
The president of Italy is a ceremonial figure.
Only two people signed the Declaration of Independence on July 4th, John Hancock and Charles Thomson. Most of the rest signed on August 2, but the last signature wasn't added until 5 years later.
The service sector accounts for almost 70% of the Italian economy.
99% of all animal species that ever lived on Earth are now extinct.
All clams start out as males; some decide to become females at some point in their lives.
General U.S. Grant owned slaves.
All gondolas in Venice, Italy must be painted black, unless they belong to a high official.
A dime has 118 ridges around the edge.
If you told someone that they were one in a million, you'd be saying there were 1,800 of them in China.
The volume of the Earth's Moon is the same as the volume of the Pacific Ocean.
The name Arkansas comes from an Indian word that means down-stream people.
1 out of 4 workers in New Mexico work directly for the Federal Government. State and local governments are also major employers.
All of the clocks in the movie 'Pulp Fiction' read 4:20.
It is energy-efficient to turn off a fluorescent light only if it will not be used again within an hour or more. This is because of the high voltage needed to turn it on, and the shortened life this high voltage causes.
King James VI and the Privy Council issued an edict in 1603 banning the use of the surname macgregor.
Lachanophobia is fear of veggies.
Laughing lowers levels of stress hormones and strengthens the immune system.
Alexander Graham Bell never phoned his wife or mother because they were deaf.
Roosters can't crow if they can't fully extend their necks.
At a speed of about 150 miles per hour the Peregrine Falcon is the fastest animal on earth.
The busiest shopping hour of the holiday season is between 3:00 pm and 4:00 pm on Christmas Eve.
An Astronaut can be up to 2 inches taller returning from space. The cartilage disks in the spine expand in the absence of gravity.
The first subway system in America was built 1897 in Boston, Massachusetts.
A red-haired man is more likely to go bald than anyone else.
Americans on the average eat 18 acres of pizza every day.
A chameleon's tongue is twice the length of its body.
1 pound of lemons contain more sugar than 1 pound of strawberries.
Gold-wrapped chocolate coins commemorate St Nicholas who gave bags of gold coins to the poor.
When a source of Vitamin C (orange, lemon, grapefruit, strawberry, tomato, potato, etc.) is eaten with meat or cooked dry beans, the body makes better use of the iron in the protein food.
The first day of the first year of the first millennium was a Saturday.
A proverb is defined as a short pithy saying in frequent and widespread use that expresses a basic truth or practical precept. In other words, it is a brief popular epigram or maxim.
Venus is the only planet that rotates clockwise.
Blue eyes are the most sensitive to light, dark brown the least sensitive.
The average human will shed 40 pounds of skin in a lifetime.
Millard Fillmore, the 13th President, was the first President to have a stepmother.
All salmon die after they spawn, but some steelhead can spawn more than once. After spawning some steelhead return to the ocean and come back again to repeat the process.
In the 18th century Dr Monsey of Chelsea, England tied a piece of catgut around a patient's tooth, threaded the other through a hole drilled in a bullet, loaded the bullet into his revolver and pulled the trigger.
The skyway system in Minneapolis allows people to live, eat, work and shop in nearly five miles without ever going outside.
90% believe in divine retribution.
Google's name is a play on the word googol, which refers to the number 1 followed by one hundred zeroes.
Male and female rats may have sex twenty times a day.
Most marine fish can survive in a tank filled with human blood.
The house fly hums in the middle octave key of F.
Your skeleton keeps growing until you are about 35, then you start to shrink.
The star fish is actually not a fish, its an animal.
Vermont's state capitol building is one of only a few to have a gold dome. A statue of Ceres sits atop the dome.
Japanese and Chinese people die on the fourth of the month more often than any other dates.
The male penguin incubates the single egg laid by his mate. During the two month period he does not eat, and will lose up to 40% of his body weight.
More people are allergic to cow's milk than any other food.
Armadillos get an average of 18.5 hours of sleep per day.
Rice is the staple food of more than one-half of the world's population.
John Madden is an accomplished ballroom dancer.
Rome is the Capital, the largest city and has a population of roughly 3 million.
Less than 10% are trilingual.
Camels were used at one time to transport goods across Arizona.
The most common belief about a solar eclipse involves a dragon or a demon devouring the Sun.
The first hot-air balloon was launched from Versailles in 1783.
Contrary to popular belief, lightning travels from the ground upwards not from the sky downwards.
An owl can't move its eyes from side to side.
La Paz, Bolivia has an average annual temperature below 50 degrees Fahrenheit.
Lack of water is the #1 trigger of daytime fatigue.
The Uinta mountain range, named after the Ute Indians who lived in the basin, is the only East-West axis mountains in North America.
In Idaho, You may not fish on a camel's back.
The face of a penny can hold about thirty drops of water.
Under extreme stress, some octopuses will eat their own arms.
32 species of sharks have ever attacked people.
Ronald Reagan appeared in 60 films from the 1930's to the 1960's.
Stewardesses is the longest word that is typed with only the left hand.
The first Christmas card was designed in 1843 by J.C. Horsley.
Your nose and ears never stop growing.
35,000 people in the U.S. will die from the flu annually.
Dartboards are made out of horsehairs.
Avocados are poisonous to birds.
Knowledge is growing so fast that 90% of what we will know in 50 years time, will be discovered in those 50 years.
Ronald Reagan's first screen credit was the starring role in the 1937 movie Love Is On the Air.
In 50 million years, it is likely that Mars will have a ring around it.
Juneau is the only capital city in the United States accessible only by boat or plane. It is also the largest U.S. city covering 3,108 square miles. Los Angeles covers only 458.2 square miles.
Brushing your teeth regularly has been shown to prevent heart disease.
The enamel in your teeth is the hardest substance in your body.
In 1998, more fast-food employees were murdered on the job than police officers.
Hawaii was once known as the Sandwich Islands.
Everybody 18 and over can vote, however you have to be at least 25 to vote in Senate elections.
The average person laughs 10 times a day!
When young and impoverished, Pablo Picasso kept warm by burning his own paintings.
The anaconda, one of the world's largest snakes, gives birth to its young instead of laying eggs.
Dallas is one of the 10 largest municipalities in the nation.
Lincoln Logs were invented by Frank Lloyd Wright's son.
A blue whales heart only beats nine times per minute.
The only dog that doesn't have a pink tongue is the chow.
The crocodile is classified as an endangered species and there are only 400 to 500 remaining in Florida.
Louis Armstrong attributes his start in a musical career after being sent to the New Orleans Waif's Home for Boys for firing his father's .38 pistol. There his music teacher took an interest in him and he began his love for music.
The 52-foot 'Big Tex' statue that greets visitors at the annual State Fair of Texas is the tallest cowboy in Texas. The State Fair has been held in the same location since 1886.
There are 635,013,559,599 possible hands in a game of bridge.
Groups of Snow Monkeys are primarily formed by adult females, there are roughly three time the number of adult females than there are adult males and young.
4 million children die each year from inhaling smoke from indoor cooking fires that burn wood and Dung.
Contrary to popular belief, London Broil is not a cut of beef but rather a method of cooking.
The province of Alberta, Canada is completely free of rats.
On August 3rd 1944 Lutheran theologian and Nazi martyr Dietrich Bonhoeffer wrote in a letter from prison: 'The Church must not underestimate the importance of human example; it is not abstract argument, but example, that gives its word emphasis and power.'
Newton was Secretive \u2013 He Rarely Published.
Nabisco's 'Oreo's' are the world's best-selling brand of cookie at a rate of 6 billion sold each year. The first Oreo was sold in 1912.
The internet slang AKA means 'also known as'.
Kama sutra includes 30 different kinds of kisses.
Dogs have two sets of teeth, just like humans. They first have 30 'puppy' teeth, then 42 adult teeth.
The Idiom 'to leave someone high and dry' means to put someone in a very difficult situation which they have no way of making better. In other words, to leave some one helpless.
The 1st CMA (Country Music Association) Awards, hosted by Sonny James and Bobbie Gentry, were presented at an awards banquet and show in 1967.
A pig's orgasm lasts for 30 minutes.
Judge Judy has a $25,000,000 salary, while Supreme Court Justice Ginsberg has a $190,100 salary.
Worker ants may live seven years and the queen may live as long as 15 years.
All the swans in England are property of the Queen.
The most abundant metal in the Earth's crust is aluminum.
Freshens the air in your home. Place an  individual sheet of Bounce in a drawer or hang one in the closet.
The number of people alive on earth right now is higher than the number of all the people that have died.
As of July 2005, China was the largest country in the World with a population of over 1.3 billion people (over 20% of the World's population).
Lanolin, an essential ingredient of many expensive cosmetics, in its natural form, a foul smelling, waxy, tarlike substance, is extracted from the fleece of sheep.
On average, we breathe between 12 and 18 times a minute.
Each year 96 billion pounds of food is wasted in the U.S.
A violin contains about 70 separate pieces of wood!
A chicken will lay bigger and stronger eggs if you change the lighting in such a way as to make them think a day is 28 hours long!
Erik Weihenmayer was the first blind person to reach the summit of Mt. Everest.
Pierce Brosnan once worked with the circus as a fire eater!
Warren Beatty and Shirley MacLaine are brother and sister.
MacDonalds fries are made with beef flavoring.
35 meters of hair fiber is produced every day on the average adult scalp.
Saudi Arabia is the only country named after its ruling family.
A phobia is a persistent, irrational fear that causes a person to feel intense anxiety.
Goldfish remember better in cold water than warm water.
Uranus is about 19 times larger than Earth and 20 times more fun to say.
In the Battle of the Little Bighorn, fought near Hardin in 1876, Lieutenant Colonel George A. Custer and all his command were killed by Sioux and Cheyenne warriors.
Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer was invented for a US firm's Christmas promotion in 1938.
The chicken is one of the few things that man eats before it's born and after it's dead.
Internet slang originated with the purpose of saving keystrokes and time.
In 1899, President McKinley was assured by the director of the US Patent Office that everything that can be invented has already been invented.
The trunk of an elephant can hold up to two gallons of water.
22% of American women aged 20 gave birth while in their teens. In Switzerland and Japan, only 2% did so.
If an Amish man has a beard, he is married.
The weather word Aurora Australis means The aurora, or southern lights, of the Southern Hemisphere.
When a horned toad is angry, it squirts blood from its eyes.
Sugar can lower your immune system.
In Brazil, Christmas is celebrated with fireworks.
All mammals have tongues.
The male howler monkey of Central and South America is the noisiest land animal, which can be heard clearly from a distance of ten miles away.
In 1879, Cleveland became the first city to be lighted by electricity. Cleveland also had the first traffic light in 1914.
If you could throw a snowball fast enough, it would totally vaporize when it hit a brick wall.
In 2005, the US government spent about $71 billion for Operation Iraqi Freedom.
The toothbrush was invented in China in 1498.
Chop-suey is not a native Chinese dish, it was created in California by Chinese immigrants.
You're 66 times more likely to be prosecuted in the USA as in France.
Statue of Liberty: The exterior copper covering of the Statue of Liberty is 3/32 of an inch thick (less than the thickness of two pennies) and the light green color (called a patina) is the result of natural weathering of the copper.
Velcro was invented by a Swiss guy who was inspired by the way burrs attached to clothing.
New York was once called Mahatta by local Indians.
A hair is 70 per cent easier to cut when soaked in warm water for two minutes.
In 1925 Nellie Tayloe Ross was elected governor of Wyoming, becoming the nation's first woman governor.
According to the Holy Bible, dreams may be caused by spiritual beings such as God or indirectly through his angels.
A kangaroo cannot jump if its tail is off the ground.
Abraham Lincoln had to go across the street to the War Department to get news from the battlefield because there was no telegraph in the White House.
After a large earthquake the earth rings like a bell.
The word 'set' has more definitions than any other word in the English language.
Cats can hear ultrasound.
In 1888, an estimated 300,000 mummified cats were found at Beni Hassan, Egypt. They were sold at $18.43 per ton, and shipped to England to be ground up and used for fertilizer.
Arne Beurling IQ Score 180.
Napoleon's favorite type of wood was knotty chestnut.
Damascus, Syria, was flourishing a couple of thousand years before Rome was founded in 753 BC, making it the oldest continuously inhabited city in existence.
An adult giraffe's tongue is 17 inches long.
The internet slang ASAP means 'as soon as possible'.
Hawaii officially became apart of the US on June 14, 1900.
It takes a drop of ocean water more than 1,000 years to circulate around the world.
Brown University in Providence is the state's oldest institution of higher education and one of the oldest in the nation. It was chartered in 1764 as Rhode Island College.
The native way to say I love you in Hindi is Mein Tumse Pyar Karta.
Your right lung takes in more air than your left one does.
Mars Odyssey orbiter studies Mars' surface composition and radiation environment and has instruments to detect water and shallow buried ice.
The Nestles haven't run Nestle since 1875.
The word 'Indiana' is Native American for 'Land of the Indians', yet less than 16,000 Native Americans live there.
In 1972, a Swedish man balanced on one foot for over five hours, using nothing for support.
In 1999, Pepsi, Inc. paid $0.00 in income tax!
Skylab, the first American space station, fell to the earth in thousands of pieces in 1979. Thankfully most over the ocean.
You can get a wedding Insurance. If your wedding rings are lost or some other catastrophe should happend some companies will cover it for you.
Every year in the US, 625 people are struck by lightning.
The largest eggs in the world are laid by a shark.
Nobel Prize resulted from a late change in the will of Alfred Nobel, who did not want to be remembered as a propagator of violence-he invented dynamite.
Each October Albuquerque hosts the world's largest international hot air balloon fiesta.
The human brain is insensitive to pain.
There are only 14 blimps in the world.
Tiger Woods is the highest paid athlete. He makes around $80 million per year (or $219,000 per day).
Studies show that if a cat falls off the seventh floor of a building it has about thirty percent less chance of surviving than a cat that falls off the twentieth floor. It supposedly takes about eight floors for the cat to realize what is occurring, relax and correct itself.
There are no penguins in the North Pole.
In 1908 soccer came into the Olympic games.
In February 2004, Sweden led the world in Internet penetration, with 76.9 percent of people connected to the Internet. The world average is 11.1 per cent.
A Costa Rican worker who makes baseballs earns about $2,750 annually. The average American pro baseball player earns $2,377,000 per year.
Aspen Trees are the largest living organism in the world.
SCUBA divers cannot pass gas at depths of 33 feet or below.
Dollar bills are mostly made from cloths.
In the weightlessness of space a frozen pea will explode if it comes in contact with Pepsi.
Irish cream and Hazelnut are the most popular whole bean coffee flavorings.
Seventy-three percent of Manila residents smoke.
President George W. Bush was once a cheerleader!
After Drew Barrymore posed for Playboy in 1995, Steven Spielberg sent a note that said 'cover yourself up' along with a quilt and a copy of the magazine with all her pictures altered so that she appeared fully clothed.
Mark Twain didn't graduate from elementary school.
Rapper LL Cool J's name is short for 'Ladies Love Cool James'.
Your ribs move about 5 million times a year, every time you breathe.
Bolivia has two capitals, Sucre and La Paz.
Mariner 6 and 7 completed the first dual mission to Mars, flying past the equator and south polar regions and analyzing the Martian atmosphere and surface with remote sensors.
The Chow and the Chinese Shar-Pei are the only dogs that have black tongues.
The typewriter was invented in 1829, and the automatic dishwasher in 1889.
Advertisements for coffee in London in 1657 claimed that the beverage was a cure for scurvy, gout and other ills.
Tremendous erosion at the base of Niagara Falls (USA) undermines the shale cliffs and as a result the falls have receded approximately 7 miles over the last 10,000 years.
The permanent teeth that erupt to replace their primary predecessors (baby teeth) are called succedaneous teeth.
In Albania, nodding the head means 'no' and shaking the head means 'yes'.
London's Pall Mall became the first street lit by gaslight in 1807!
The poison arrow frogs of South and Central America are the most poisonous animals in the world.
Florence is home to Italian art.
The largest man-made lake in the U.S. is Lake Mead, created by Hoover Dam.
In the U.S, Frisbees outsell footballs, baseballs and basketballs combined.
Liverpool Cathedral is the largest Anglican Cathedral in Britain.
It is nearly three miles farther to fly from Amarillo, Texas to Louisville, Kentucky than it is to return from Louisville to Amarillo.
Salamanders breath through their skin.
AFI DALLAS International Film Festival entertains more than 40,000 attendees with lectures, galas and 180 features and shorts, representing more than 25 countries.
If the entire population of earth was reduced to exactly 100 people, 51% would be female, 49% male; 50% of the world's currency would be held by 6 people, one person would be nearly dead, one nearly born.
On August 3rd in 1882 Congress passes 1st law restricting immigration.
A Holstein's spots are like a fingerprint or snowflake. No two cows have exactly the same pattern of spots.
1.5 million Americans are charged with drunk driving each year.
Cell phones have more bacteria and germs than public restroom toilet seats.
Pigs can't sweat because they don't have sweat glands.
Rape is reported every six minutes in the U.S.
You will weigh less if you weigh yourself when the Moon is full.
Krispy Kreme Doughnut was founded in Winston-Salem.
On August 3rd 1963 Beatles had their final performance at the Cavern Club in Liverpool.
It takes more calories to eat a piece of celery than the celery has in it to begin with.
An ounce of gold can be stretched into a wire 50 miles long.
A total solar eclipse is not noticable until the Sun is more than 90 percent covered by the Moon.
A crocodiles tongue is attached to the roof of its mouth.
At 5.5 million square feet, the Dallas Market Center is the world's largest market for wholesale merchandise.
If saliva cannot dissolve something, you cannot taste it.
In casinos, $50 bills are known as 'frogs' and are considered by many to be bad luck.
Olympus Mons is the largest volcano in our solar system.
Cacao, the main ingredient of chocolate is the most pest-ridden tree in the jungle.
The best diamonds are colored blue-white.
Americans spent about 54 - 55 billion dollars on gambling every year.
No NFL team that plays its home games in a domed stadium ever won a Superbowluntil the St. Louis Rams in 2000.
More Civil War battles were fought in Tennessee than in any other state except Virginia.
Rats can't throw-up.
Wet sand weighs less than dry sand.
An area of the Sun's surface the size of a postage stamp shines with the power of 1,500,000 candles.
The song 'Strawberry Fields Forever', sung by the Beatles, refers to an orphanage located in Liverpool.
Humans are radioactive.
Shoshone Falls spills over a 212-foot drop near Twin Falls.
At an average speed of 15 feet a day the sloth is the slowest animal on earth.
An anagram that reads the same backward as forward is called palindrome, e.g., 'Anna'.
82% believe in an afterlife.
The principality of Monaco consists of 370 acres.
The Swedish pop group ABBA recently turned down an offer of $2 billion to reunite.
There has been no mail delivery in Canada on Saturday for the last thirty five years.
One quarter of the bones in your body are in your feet.
When a giraffe is born, it has to fall around six feet to the ground.
A Big Mac costs $5.11 in Switzerland.
Bulgarians are known to be the biggest yogurt eaters in the world.
The first Dude Ranch in Wyoming was the Eaton Ranch, near Wolf. The Eaton's also came up with the term 'dude'.
When a female horse and male donkey mate, the offspring is called a mule, but when a male horse and female donkey mate, the offspring is called a hinny.
The remains of 125 people will be launched into space where they will orbit the Earth for centuries.
The first alarm clock could only ring at 4 a.m.
Everyone's tongue print is different.
Unlike Earth, Saturn is made mostly of hydrogen and helium. While it has heavier materials in the core, Saturn has no surface on which you could stand.
There is a high and low tide because of our Moon and the Sun.
Before Jets, Jet lag was called Boat lag.
Jimmy Carter is the first U.S. President to have been born in a hospital.
Hot water weighs less than cold water for a given volume.
Orcas (killer whales) kill sharks by torpedoing up into the shark's stomach from underneath, causing the shark to explode.
The silkworm moth has lost the ability of flight due to domestication.
Giant Panda Bears give birth to a 4 ounce Baby Panda!
If you can see a rainbow you must have your back to the Sun.
A cat's jaw cannot move sideways.
Brasco is Australian slang for 'lavatory'.
The owl is the only bird to drop its upper eyelid to wink. All other birds raise their lower eyelids.
The cicada, a fly found in Africa, spends 17 years of its life sleeping; and only two weeks is awake during which mates and then dies.
Ancient Greeks believed wearing amethysts would help keep a person from becoming drunk.
Casanova worked as a librarian when he was older.
Arizona was the last of the 48 adjoining continental states to enter the Union.
Bird's nest are served in Chinese restaurants throughout the world. The swallow birds nest are picked from caves of the Island of Koh Phi Phi in Thailand.
California's Frank Epperson invented the Popsicle in 1905 when he was 11-years-old.
The Ohio river forms at the confluence of the Allegheny and the Monongahela.
Burt Reynolds was originally cast to be Han Solo in the first Star Wars film. He dropped out before filming.
The Library of Congress is the world's largest library with more than 120 million items.
Fingernails grow nearly 4 times faster than toenails.
The videophone was invented by Bell Laboratories in 1927.
The lucky numbers of the hare is: 4, 5, 7, 9, 13, 34, 44, 45 & 54
The Amazon is the world's largest river, 3,890 miles (6,259 km) long.
Cow is a Japanese brand of shaving foam.
Rudyard Kipling refused to write with anything other than black ink.
Beelzebub, another name for the devil, is Hebrew for 'Lord of the Flies', and this is where the book's title comes from.
The weather world atmosphere means the gaseous fluid surrounding a planet.
Canis Familiaris is the Latin name for dog.
We now know that other planets have rings, but Saturn's are the only ones that are visible from Earth even with a small telescope.
Technically speaking, crystal glass is actually a Liquid that flows very slowly.
Green tea is the national drink of Japan
Salt Lake City, Utah has a law against carrying an unwrapped ukulele on the street.
A black frost over most of New England kills unripened corn in the north resulting in a year of famine.
Billy goats urinate on their own heads to smell more attractive to females.
A pipe 2 feet in diameter will allow four times more fluid to pass through it than a pipe 1 foot in diameter.
Rain contains vitamin B12.
There are more than 1,700 references to gems and precious stones in the King James translation of the Bible.
10 of the tributaries flowing into the Amazon river are as big as the Mississippi river.
The penguin is the only bird who can swim, but not fly.
Kotex was first manufactured as bandages, during World War II. The Phantom of the Opera star was once called Michael Dumble-Smith. The unsurprising desire for a name change was concluded after he saw a passing Crawford's buscuit lorry.
Swiss Steak, Chop Suey, Russian Dressing, and a Hamburger all originated in the US.
Wine will spoil if exposed to light; hence tinted bottles.
An estimated 800,000 senior citizens voluntarily give up their driving privileges each year. The average age at which they surrender the wheel is 85.
A camel can drink over 25 gallons of water at a time.
Men with a certain rare medical condition can breastfeed babies.
Age of Niagara Falls: 12,000 years.
If you feed a seagull Alka-Seltzer, its stomach will explode.
On April 22nd 2003 Hundreds of thousands of Shiites journeyed to Karbala for annual religious observances banned under Saddam Hussein and many called on Americans to go home.
The Taj Mahal took 20 years and 20 thousand men to finish!
The Moon is 27% the size of the Earth.
Flamingos can only eat with their heads upside down.
Kermit the frog delivered the commencement address at Southampton College located in the state of New York in 1996.
The blueprints for the Eiffel Tower covered more than 14,000 square feet of drafting paper.
When you sneeze, all your bodily functions stop even your heart.
An average human loses about 200 head hairs per day.
In Denmark there are twice as many pigs as people.
On average, Elephants sleep for about 2 hours per day.
100 years ago: The first virus was found in both plants and animals.
Humans use a total of 72 different muscles in speech.
One 75-watt light bulb gives off more light than three 25-watt light bulbs.
Moisture, not air, causes super glue to dry.
Excessive use of credit is cited as a major cause of non-business bankruptcy, second only to unemployment.
On September 26th 1969, Beatles released the 'Abbey Road' album.
The Idiom 'make mouth water' means if the smell or the sight of food makes your mouth water, it makes you want to eat it.
Mexicans consumed more Coca-Cola products than Americans, on average, in 2005. The average Mexican consumed 533 beverages during 2005, while the average American consumed 431.
Dallas-area hotels provide visitors with a wide diversity of lodging options and more than 70,000 hotel rooms.
Before Prohibition, Schlitz Brewery owned more property in Chicago than anyone else, except the Catholic church.
Cinderella is known as 'Tuna' in Finland.
The average human blinks their eyes 6,205,000 times each year.
Devils Tower was designated as the first National Monument (1906).
The parking meter was invented in North Dakota.
US Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina set a filibuster record in the U.S. Senate on August 19, 1957. He spoke for 24 hours and 18 minutes.
25% of cat owners blow dry the cat's hair after giving it a bath.
In Michigan, a woman isn't allowed to cut her own hair without her husband's permission.
The majority of Italian-American immigrants came from Naples and southern Italy.
Johnny Plessey batted .331 for the Cleveland Spiders in 1891, even though he spent the entire season batting with a rolled-up, lacquered copy of the Toledo Post-Dispatch.
Fair Park, a district with numerous museums and venues, features the nation's largest collection of 1930s Art Deco, exposition-style architecture.
The brain uses more than 25% of the oxygen used by the human body.
When a puppy is born, he is blind, deaf, and toothless.
Zero point energy is a source of energy which is released when atoms stop moving, at -273 Celcius.
Diamonds are the hardest substance known to man.
More bald eagles gather along the Chilkat River than at any other place in the world.
On February 17th 1600 Giordano Bruno was burned in Rome as a heretic.
The JCPenney stores were started in Kemmerer.
You can actually sharpen the blades on a pencil sharpener by wrapping your pencils in aluminum foil before inserting them.
The microwave was invented after a researcher walked by a radar tube and a chocolate bar melted in his pocket.
The seven hills of Rome are the Palatine (on which the original city was built), the Capitoline, Quirinal, Viminal, Esquiline, Caelian, and Aventine.
Sex is biochemically no different from eating large quantities of chocolate.
Rock and roll singer, Little Richard, played a transvestite named Lavonne in gay clubs early in his career.
Hydroxydesoxycorticosterone and hydroxydeoxycorticosterones are the largest anagrams.
The NASDAQ stock exchange was totally disabled in on day in December 1987 when a squirrel burrowed through a telephone line.
Italy's national dish is pasta.
80% of all pictures on the internet are of naked women.
In Hindu, 'khabbalabra' means 'left.'
The internet slang ABT means 'about'.
There are approximately fifty Bibles sold each minute across the world!
There are some species of snails that are extremely venomous.
A jellyfish is 95 percent water!
Goats do not have upper front teeth.
Florida has more tornados per square mile than any other state.
Alaska, with 8, is the US state with the most national park sites.
Adding a drop of olive oil and lemon juice to an ice cube then running it over your face gives you better results than some expensive skin care products.
Only tom turkeys gobble. Hen turkeys make a clicking noise.
The 1998 Scarborough Research Corporation stated that Salt Lake City had more personal computers per household than any other city in the United States.
On August 17th 1969 the hurricane Camille claimed more than 250 lives.
Inventor Samuel Colt patented his revolver in 1836.
Given the opportunity, deer will chew gum and marijuana.
27% of U.S. male college students believe life is a meaningless existential hell.
One plain milk chocolate candy bar has more protein than a banana.
Venus and Uranus are the only planets that rotate opposite to the direction of their orbit.
America's best selling ice cream flavor is vanilla.
A fetus acquires fingerprints at the age of three months.
In Japan, the teachers move from class to class and the students stay in one room.
Each year, 24,000 Americans are bitten by rats!
A linesman is estimated to run about 4 miles during a soccer game.
United States Presidents born in Vermont, Chester A. Arthur (1881, 23rd President) and Calvin Coolidge (1923, 30th President).
Supercells are the most dangerous types of thunder storms.
Bacterias cause infection through the damaging of the host tissue by penetrating deep into tissue or by releasing toxic (poisonous) substance in the surrounding tissue cells. An example of this bacterial infection is anthrax.
Underground is the only word in the English language that begins and ends with the letters 'und'.
The faster a kangaroo hops, the less energy it burns!
Berlin-Ichthyosaur State Park near Gabbs has fossils of ancient fishlike reptiles.
NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter has revealed hundreds of small fractures exposed on the Martian surface that billions of years ago directed flows of water through underground Martian sandstone.
The average American consumes 1.2 pounds of spider eggs a year and eat 2.5 pounds of insect parts a year.
John F. Kennedy was the first Roman Catholic President of the USA!
One station in the London Underground has two different names of its platforms, Bank and Monument.
The technical name for a kazoo is a membranophone.
The Honourable Company of Edinburgh Golfers founded in 1744, is the world's oldest golf club!
Looking up at the heavens, we see matter in the form of stars, planets, and in the glowing clouds of gas and dust known as nebulas. These are visible forms of matter. However, astronomers believe that over 70 percent of the Universe is made up of invisible matter, known as dark matter.
The bulls-eye on a dartboard must be 5 feet 8 inches off the ground.
US tops the world in plastic surgery procedures. Next comes Mexico.
In just about every species of mammal, the female lives longer than the male.
The grey whale migrates 12,500 miles from the Artic to Mexico and back every year.
Arrowroot, an antidote for poisoned arrows, is used as a thickener in cooking.
A hockey puck is made of vulcanized rubber.
In a normal lifetime an American will eat 200 pounds of peanuts and 10,000 pounds of meat.
A lump of pure gold the size of a matchbook can be flattened into a sheet the size of a tennis court.
The face of the Sphinx is believed to represent pharaoh Khafre
When we think of Big Ben in London, we think of the clock. Actually, it's the bell.
In ancient Greece, children of wealthy families were dipped in olive oil at birth to keep them hairless throughout their lives.
In Devon, Connecticut, it is unlawful to walk backwards after sunset.
The average person has 100,000 hairs on his/her head. Each hair grows about 5 inches (12.7 cm) every year.
Chinese Crested dogs can get acne.
The average American/Canadian will eat about 11.9 pounds of cereal per year!
Hollywood director Steven Spielberg played a cameo role as the clerk who receives Dan Ackroyd and John Belushi's money at the end of the Blues Brothers.
Jennifer Lopez started taking singing and dancing lessons at age 5.
It takes a lobster approximately seven years to grow to be one pound.
New Castle is the smallest town in New Hampshire covering .8 square miles.
A new born blue whale measures 20-26 feet (6.0 - 7.9 meters) long and weighs up to 6,614 pounds (3003 kg).
In Oklahoma, no baseball team can hit the ball over the fence or out of a ballpark.
The Saga of Einstein's Brain: Pickled in a Jar for 43 Years and Driven Cross Country in a Trunk of a Buick!
Cats cannot taste sweet thing.
McDonald's is the world's largest distributor of toys!
Jaguar images and costumes were outlawed by the Catholic church in the seventeenth century because of their association with Indian religion, militia, and politics
Most of the world's people must walk at least 3 hours to fetch water!
America puts many more of its citizens in prison than any other nation.
In a nod to astronauts, Texas is the only state that permits residents to cast absentee ballots from space.
Almost is the longest word in the English language with all the letters in alphabetical order.
Frogs cannot swallow without blinking.
The elephant is the only mammal that can't jump.
A vespa is an Italian-made motor scooter that many people ride around busy city streets on.
One ragweed plant can release as many as one billion grains of pollen!
9% of us skip breakfast daily.
Iceland consumes more Coca-Cola per capita than any other nation.
Donald Duck comics were banned in Finland because he didn't wear pants.
A novel with 50,000 words, none of which contained the letter 'E' waswritten by Ernest Wright.
40% of women have hurled footwear at a man.
The Pro Football Hall of Fame is located in Canton and in Cleveland is the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
If all Americans used one third less ice in their drinks the United States would become a net exporter instead of an importer of energy.
The 1st comic strip was 'The Yellow Kid,' in the New York World in 1896. The cartoonist was Richard Felton Outcault.
Lizards can self-amputate their tails for protection. It grows back after a few months.
The thermometer is an Italian invention.
The dye used to stamp the grade on meat is edible. It's made from grape skins.
At birth, a panda is smaller than a mouse and weighs about four ounces.
The search engine Google got its name from the word 'googol', which refers to the number one with a hundred zeros after it.
Actress Michelle Pfeiffer was the first choice to play Clarice Starling in the movie Silence of the Lambs. She turned down the role because she found it too scary.
Honey is the only food that does not spoil. Honey found in the tombs of Egyptian pharaohs has been tasted by archaeologists and found edible.
44% of men tailgate to speed up the person in front of them.
The average Italian family has 1.27 children.
The Philippines has about 7,100 islands, of which only about 460 are more than 1 square mile in area.
Frozen lobsters can come back to life when thawed!
Humans shed about 600,000 particles of skin every hour - about 1.5 pounds a year. By 70 years of age, an average person will have lost 105 pounds of skin.
Coca-Cola was the first soft drink to be consumed in outer space.
Rats can't vomit, that's why rat poison works.
The native way to say I love you in Welsh ( Wales/UK) is 'Rwy'n dy garu di / Yr wyf i yn dy garu di (chwi).
The first owner of the Marlboro Company died of lung cancer.
Madonna suffers from garophobia (the fear of thunder).
It is possible for any American citizen to give whatever name he or she chooses to any unnamed mountain or hill in the United States.
A ball of glass will bounce higher than a ball made of rubber.
In most American states, a wedding ring is exempt by law from inclusion among the assets in a bankruptcy estate. This means that a wedding ring cannot be seized by creditors, no matter how much the bankrupt person owes.
Camel's milk, which is widely drunk in Arab countries, has 10 times more iron than cow's milk.
Australia doesn't have any country motto.
House flies have a lifespan of two weeks.
The highest hotel in the world is Everest View Hotel, located in Nepal at an altitude of 3800m.
Whispering is more wearing on your voice than a normal speaking tone.
Giraffes are unable to cough.
The driest inhabited place in the world is Aswan, Egypt where the annual average rainfall is .02 inches.
Eskimo ice cream is neither icy, or creamy!
Jupiter's moon Ganymede, is larger than planet Mercury!
A mule won't sink in quicksand but a donkey will.
Thailand has about 26 000 temples.
The Blue Whale weighs as much as thirty elephants and is as long as three Greyhound buses.
The greatest tide change on earth occurs in the Bay of Fundy. The difference between low tide and high tide can be as great as 54 ft. 6 in. (16.6 meters).
The japanese smiley (>_<) means Angry.
Homosexuality remained on the American Psychiatric Association's list of mental illnesses until 1973.
In 1979, actor Mel Gibson had an edge for the starring role in Mad Max because just before the audition he had gotten into a fight and his face was badly battered.
The Idiom 'in hot water' means to be in big trouble or be in an embarrassing situation with someone.
On April 15th 1850 the city of San Francisco was incorporated.
If you were to take a taxicab from New York City to Los Angeles, it would cost you $8,325.
On August 3rd 1990 NY Yankee Kevin Mass sets record with 10th HR in 1st 72 at bats.
You can walk on custard because it will get thick when pressure is applied to it.
Pele was born on October 23, 1940.
The stomach's digestive acids are strong enough to dissolve zinc. Fortunately for us, the cells in the stomach lining renew so quickly that the acids don't have time to dissolve it.
Hells Canyon, the deepest gorge in the United States, has a maximum depth of 2400 m (about 7900 ft).
Animal breeders in Russia once claimed to have bred sheep with blue wool.
India invented the Number System. Zero was invented by Aryabhatta.
71.6% of us eavesdrop.
The onion is actually a lily.
It's against the law to have a pet dog in Iceland.
You are more likely to get attacked by a cow than a shark.
Many of the buildings along Broadway in New York have no thirteenth floor.
A spider's silk is stronger than steel.
The japanese smiley ^^; means Cold sweat.
Topless saleswomen are legal in Liverpool, England, but only in tropical fish stores.
Emus and kangaroos cannot walk backwards, and are on the Australian coat of arms for that reason.
Between 1942 and 1944, Academy Awards were made of plaster.
If current trends continue, Medicare costs will absorb 51% of all income tax revenues by 2042.
If every star in the Milky Way was a grain of salt they would fill an Olympic sized swimming pool.
Even though she appears in ads for Tommy Hilfiger's True Star fragrances, Beyonce is reportedly allergic to perfume.
On average, 100 people choke to death on ball-point pens every year.
Stretching 60 miles from Little River to Georgetown, South Carolina's Grand Strand is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the United States.
When ants find food, they lay down a chemical trail, called a pheromone, so that other ants can find their way from the nest to the food source.
Honeybees have a type of hair on their eyes!
If you are afraid of washing or bathing its called ablutophobia.
If you hook Jell-O up to an EEG, it registers movements almost identical to a human adult's brain waves.
Until 1990, the deadly poison mercury was used in about 30% of latex paints!
In 1980, a Las Vegas hospital suspended workers for betting on when patients would die.
About 1 in 30 people in the U.S. are in jail, on probation, or on parole.
Netherlands is the only country with a national dog.
Upper and lower case letters are named 'upper' and 'lower', because in the time when al original print had to be set in individual letters, the 'upper case' letters were stored in the case on top of the case stored smaller, 'lower case' letters.
The shortest war in history was between Zanzibar and England in 1896. Zanzibar surrendered after 38 minutes.
Grenades were invented in China over 1,000 years ago.
Ancient Egyptians shaved off their eyebrows to mourn the deaths of their cats.
A.B. (Artium Baccalaureus) is the Latin word for Bachelor of Arts
A fog belt 50 ft. deep over an area of 104 square miles contains no more moisture that single bucket of water.
Pamela Anderson Lee is Canada's Centennial Baby, being the first baby born on the centennial anniversary of Canada's independence.
Rats can tell the difference between two human languages.
Most toilets flush in E flat.
December 1972, astronaut Eugene Cernan (U.S.) became the last person to set foot on the Moon.
The native way to say I love you in Pakistani is Muje se mu habbat hai.
Kemo Sabe means 'soggy shrub' in Navajo.
Route 20 is the longest highway in the US.
No matter how cold it gets, gasoline will not freeze.
Tasmania, Australia has the cleanest air in the inhabited world.
The theobromine in chocolate that stimulates the cardiac and nervous systems is too much for dogs, especially smaller pups. A chocolate bar is poisonous to dogs and can even be lethal.
The bark of an older redwood tree is fireproof.
The Queen's Christmas speech was first televised in 1957.
New York City has 570 miles of shoreline.
The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas is home to four Nobel Laureates: three in physiology/medicine and one in chemistry.
Rats are omnivorous, eating nearly any type of food, including dead and dying members of their own species.
Pele has always hated his nickname, which he says sounds like 'baby-talk in Portuguese'.
The largest living thing on the face of the Earth is a mushroom underground in Oregon. It measures three and a half miles in diameter.
Texas is also the only state that is allowed to fly its state flag at the same height as the U.S. flag.
A tropical wave, later to become Tropical Storm Isabel, struck Puerto Rico. As much as 24 inches of rain fell in 24 hours, and the severe flooding and numerous landslides resulting from the rain claimed about 180 lives.
Many residents of Troublesome Creek, Kentucky, have blue skin.
Every square inch of the human body has an average of 32 million bacteria on it.
The river Danube empties into the Black Sea.
The first computer mouse was introduced in 1968 by Douglas Engelbart at the Fall Joint Computer Expo in San Francisco.
Giraffes often sleep for only 20 minutes in any 24 hours. They may sleep up to 2 hours (in spurts - not all at once), but this is rare. They never lie down.
Drive-by shootings are a bitch, especially when you're the one pulling the rickshaw.
Eyeglasses are an Italian invention.
Male seahorses produce offspring.
Shakespeare invented the word 'assassination' and 'bump'.
The fastest land animal in the world is the cheetah with a speed up to 60 mph.
Colorado's southwest corner borders Arizona, New Mexico and Utah the only place in America where the corners of four states meet.
Tooth decay is still one of the most common human disease in the world.
Nearly 60 million Christmas trees are grown each year in Europe.
After billions of years, black holes become white holes and they spit out all the things they sucked up.
Dissolves soap scum from shower doors. Clean with a used sheet of Bounce.
Samuel Clemens (Mark Twain) was born on and died on days when Halley's Comet can be seen.
In cats, the calico and tortoiseshell coats are sex-linked traits. All cats displaying these coats are female... or occasionally sterile males.
Clans of long ago that wanted to get rid of their unwanted people without killing them would burn their houses downhence the expression 'to get fired'.
In Switzerland, it's against the law to slam your car door.
People in parts of Western China put salt in their tea instead of sugar.
Francis Scott Key was a young lawyer who wrote the poem, 'The Star Spangled Banner', after being inspired by watching the Americans fight off the British attack of Baltimore during the War of 1812. The poem became the words to the national anthem.
The human brain is 80% water.
Edison's First Patented Invention was a Flop.
Since 1959, more than 6,000 pieces of 'space junk' (abandoned rocket and satellite parts) have fallen out of orbit - many of these have hit the earth's surface.
The internet slang AAMOF means 'as a matter of fact'.
The United kingdom eats more cans of baked beans than the rest of the world combined.
85% of men don't use the slit in their underwear.
The average human head weighs about 8 pounds.
Acting was once considered to be evil, and the actors in the first English play to be performed in America were arrested.
About 1000 new soft drinks are launched in Japan every year.
George Clooney is terrified of earthquakes.
Michelangelo designed the uniforms worn by the Swiss guard at the Vatican.
Blood is about 78 percent water.
The estates of 22 dead celebrities earned over $5 million in 2004. These celebrities include Elvis Presley, Dr. Seuss, Charles Schulz, J.R.R. Tolkien and John Lennon.
Attics were invented in Attica.
The native way to say I love you in Bengali is Ami tomay bhalobashi.
A pipe organ was the loudest sound that could be made in the year 1600.
Cobras are able to kill immediately after they are born.
The Neanderthal's brain was bigger than yours is.
The venom of the king cobra is so deadly that just one gram of it can kill 150 people.
In Arkansas it is illegal to buy or sell blue lightbulbs.
Per capita, the Irish eat more chocolate than Americans, Swedes, Danes, French, and Italians.
Saturn's rings are about 500,000 miles in circumference but only about a foot thick.
The first Computer was ENIAC, short for Electronic Numerical Integrator And Computer, unveiled on February 14, 1946.
In 5 billion years the Sun will run out of fuel and turn into a Red Giant.
Kleenex tissues were originally used as filters in gas masks.
53% read their horoscopes regularly.
Time magazine's 'Man of the Year' for 1938 was Adolph Hitler.
All species of beetles are edible.
A town in North Wales is named LLANFAIRPWLLGWYNGYLLGOGERYCHWYRNDROBWLLLLANTYSILIOGOGOGOCH.
In 1990, the word 'recession' appeared in 1,583 articles in The Wall Street Journal.
The United States has five percent of the world's population, but twenty-five percent of the world's prison population.
55% of people yawn within 5 minutes of seeing someone else yawn. Reading about yawning makes most people yawn.
The normal temperature of a cat is 101.5 degrees.
George Clooney says he will never get married, nor have any children.
Talmudists believe Adam and Eve resided in paradise a mere 12 hours before they were kicked out.
The inventor of the Waffle Iron did not like waffles.
The mantis shrimp has an extending claw that can punch a hole through a glass jar.
The word 'electric' was first used in 1600 by William Gilbert, a doctor to Queen Elizabeth I.
In 1935, Jesse Owens set six track and field world records in less than one hour.
Finish everything on your plate in China is a bit rude.
If you spray an antiseptic spray on a polar bear, its fur will turn purple.
On New Year's Day, 1907, Theodore Roosevelt shook hands with 8,513 people.
Less than 3% of Nestle's sales are for chocolate.
The first bowling pins were so light that sometimes they flew out through the window of the bowling club.
The can opener was invented 48 years after cans were introduced.
A zebra is white with black stripes.
Every minute, 30-40,000 dead skin cells fall from your body.
The prime minister serves as the head of government and is the one who runs the country.
Only 10% of all the pages on the Internet make it to the search engines
A tornado once carried a motel sign 30 miles, from Oklahoma to Arkansas.
You have no sense of smell when you're sleeping!
An eagle can attack, kill, and carry away an animal as large as a small deer.
Snakes have one lung.
A full grown moose may be 8 feet high at the shoulder and weigh almost a ton.
Hawaii has the largest number of introduced plants in the world.
Many of Shakespeare's plays were set in Italy, including Romeo and Juliet from Verona.
The Professor on 'Gilligan's Island' was named Roy Hinkley. The Skipper was named Jonas Grumby. Both names were used only once in the entire series, on the first episode.
Actor Val Kilmer grew up on Roy Rogers' ranch.
One of the many Tarzans, Karmuela Searlel, was mauled to death on the set by a raging elephant!
A hamlet is a village without a church and a town is not a city until it has a cathedral.
The native way to say I love you in Mohawk is Konoronhkwa.
The Phoenicians, the ancient Lebanese, were the first to develop an alphabetic script in 1100 B.C. They did so to facilitate their prosperous trade further.
The scorpion fish can merge the shape of its head with the surrounding rocks.
Due to its 2002 expansion, The Dallas Convention Center has the world's largest singular, column-free exhibit hall in the world, at 203,000 square feet.
More than 40,000 parasites and 250 types of bacteria are exchanged during a typical French kiss!
The magnetic North Pole shifts by about 7 meters a day.
The native way to say I love you in Tunisian is Ha eh bak.
The water in the Great Salt Lake of Utah is more than four times as salty as any ocean.
The first African-American quarterback in the NFL was Willie Thrower. He played for the Chicago Bears in 1953.
Hockey has been played for over three centuries.
An infestation of head lice is called pediculosis.
Plants watered with warm water grow larger and more quickly than plants watered with cold water.
The national orchestra of Monaco (a nation in Europe) has more individuals than its army.
If Barbie were life-size, her measurements would be 39-23-33. She would stand seven feet, two inches tall.
The youngest pope was 11 years old.
Milan is home to Italian fashion and finance.
Hydrogen gas is the least dense substance in the world.
The Earth's atmosphere weighs about 5.5 quadrillion tons.
In 1967, Hurricane Beulah unleased 115 tornadoes over Texas.
There are 125 drinking fountains in Central Park, New York.
In 1960, the ratio of the average Fortune 500 CEO's pay to the US president's salary was 2-to-1. Today, this ratio is around 30-to-1.
Neutron stars are so dense that a teaspoonful would weigh more than all the people on Earth.
Mahatma Gandhi spoke English with an Irish accent, for one of his first teachers was an Irishman.
On 30 January 1948, Gandhi was shot and killed on the grounds of the Birla Bhavan (Birla House) in New Delhi.
Pope Pius II wrote an erotic book 'Historia de duobos amantibus' in 1444.
In 1973, two blind Peruvian soccer teams played a match using a ball filled with dried peas.
2 and 5 are the only prime numbers that end in 2 or 5.
The 16th century Escorial palace of King Phillip II of Spain had 1,200 doors.
Research indicates that plants grow healthier when they are stroked.
The top five oil exporting nations in the World are Saudi Arabia, Russia, Norway, United Arab Emirates and Iran.
The 16th century Escorial palace of King Phillip II of Spain had 2673 windows.
The puma and the leopard are the highest jumping mammals. They are able to reach a height of 16.5 feet.
Evan's Plunge, the world's largest natural indoor warm-water pool, is located in Hot Springs.
In Alaska, it is legal to shoot bears. However, waking a sleeping bear for the purpose of taking a photograph is prohibited.
The number of twin births have more than doubled since the early 1970s.
In medieval Thailand, they had moveable type printing presses. The type was made from baked oxen dung.
Your skull is made up of 29 different bones.
Jaguars are frightened by dogs.
Eclipse shadows travel at 1,100 miles per hour at the equator and up to 5,000 miles per hour near the poles.
The native way to say I love you in Hungarian is Szeretlek te'ged.
Cleopatra wasn't Egyptian; she was Greek.
Baby Ruth candy bar was named after Grover Cleveland's daughter, Ruth, not the baseball player.
The native way to say I love you in Estonian is Mina armastan sind.
On August the 3rd 1954 1st VTOL (Vertical Take-off & Land) flown
Last December, the House of Representatives earmarked $50,000,000 to create an indoor rain forest in Iowa.
The Mammoth Site in Hot Springs has 100 Columbian and Woolly Mammoth fossils buried there.
One million Americans, about 3,000 each day, take up smoking each year. Most of them are children.
The collecting of beer mats (coasters) is called tegestology.
Every second, Americans collectively eat one hundred pounds of chocolate.
Dragonflies can travel up to 60 miles.
More boys than girls are born during the day; more girls are born at night.
Local calls using a coin-operated phone in the U.S. cost only 5 cents everywhere until 1951.
Bill Gates' house was designed using a Macintosh computer.
Relative to size, the strongest muscle in the body is the tongue.
Each square inch of human skin consists of twenty feet of blood vessels.
Dogs and cats consume almost $7 billion worth of pet food a year.
A 'clue' originally meant a ball of thread. Hence, one 'unravels' the clues of a mystery.
Each year, over 1,000,000 people fail to itemize out the mortgage interest deduction on their income taxes. Last year, this amounted to $473,000,000 in taxes.
The name Wendy was first used in JM Barrie's Peter Pan.
Almost half of all the pigs in the world are kept by farmers in China.
The parking meter was invented by C.C. Magee in 1935.
The average 21 year old has spent 5,000 hours playing video games, has exchanged 250,000 e-mails, instant and text messages and has spent 10,000 hours on the mobile phone.
Darwin once ate an owl.
Though the giraffe's neck is about 7 feet long, it contains the same number of vertebrae as a mouse's, which is seven.
A lost world exists in the Indonesian jungle that is home to dozens of hitherto unknown animal and plant species.
Nearly a third of all bottled drinking water purchased in the US is contaminated with bacteria.
In Japan, the Number 4 is associated with death.
The king of hearts is the only king without a mustache.
Mercury is the only metal that is liquid at room temperature.
You inhale about 700,000 of your own skin flakes each day.
In golf, a 'Bo Derek' is a score of 10.
Warner Chappel Music owns the copyright to the song 'Happy Birthday'. They make over $1 million in royalties every year from the commercial use of the song.
The average 1 1/4 lb. lobster is 7 to 9 years old.
Gerald Ford once worked as a cover model for Cosmopolitan magazine.
The IRS employees tax manual has instructions for collecting taxes after a nuclear war.
The average person's left hand does 56% of the typing.
Some scholars believe the Shakespeare plays were not written by William Shakespeare of Stratford-upon-Avon but by some other well-educated, aristocratic writer who wished to remain anonymous.
35 Billion e-mails are sent each day throughout the world.
The Ramses brand condom is named after the great pharaoh Ramses II who fathered over 160 children.
Human tapeworms can grow up to 22.9m.
Walt Disney named Micky Mouse after Mickey Rooney, whose mother he dated for a while.
The pretzel is named from the Latin word 'brachiatus' meaning 'having branch-like arms'.
Halle Berry used to date New Kid on the Block Danny Wood. They broke up because the band thought she was a groupie.
1 in every 28 page views on the Web is a search results page.
The abbreviation Xmas isn't irreligious. The letter X is a Greek abbreviation for Christ.
China's Beijing Duck Restaurant can seat 9,000 people at one time.
Honeybees never sleep.
If a Lobster loses an eye, it will grow another one.
A newborn kangaroo is about 1 inch in length.
Americans file about 70000 lawsuits every single day.
The only member of the band ZZ Top without a beard has the last name Beard.
Contrary to popular belief, hair does not grow back darker and thicker after it has been shaved.
Elephants have been known to remain standing after they die.
London Underground is the oldest underground system in the world.
The Eiffel Tower has 1792 steps.
There were only 8,000 cars in the US and only 144 miles of paved roads. The maximum speed limit in most cities was 10 mph.
You can make edible cheese from the milk of 24 different mammals.
McDonalds calls frequent buyers of their food heavy users.
The force of one billion people jumping at the same time is equal to 500 tons of TNT.
In 1905, the largest log cabin in the world was built in honor of the Lewis and Clark expedition.
Snowboarding is the fastest growing sport in the world.
By feeding hens certain dyes they can be made to lay eggs with multi-colored yolks.
Alaska could hold the 21 smallest States.
The famous children's story, Pinocchio , was written by an Italian.
Prevents musty suitcases. Place an individual sheet of Bounce inside empty luggage before storing.
There are 293 ways to make change for a dollar.
In Colorado, there are about 83,000 dairy cows.
Every drop of seawater contains approximately 1 billion gold atoms.
The Mona Lisa has no eyebrows. It was the fashion in Renaissance Florence to shave them off!
The Guinness Book of Records holds the record for being the book most often stolen from Libraries.
When a coffee seed is planted, it takes five years to yield consumable fruit.
In comic strips, the person on the left always speaks first.
The first product that the toy company Mattel came out with was picture frames.
The native way to say I love you in Latvian is Es Tev milu.
Sheep outnumber humans in New Zealand 15 to 1.
Newton and His Apple: The True Story.
Male mosquitoes find female mosquitoes by listening to the sound of their wings beating. The males can actually identify the correct species by the pitch of the female's wings.
Bacterias are single-celled (one-celled) microorganisms.
Worms can have up to ten hearts.
Serpent Mound State Memorial, a famous earthen mound in the shape of a serpent, winds for a length of 411 m (1348 ft) near Peebles.
Arnold Schwarzenegger's famous line in The Terminator 'I'll be back' was originally scripted as 'I'll come back'.
The blood of mammals is red, the blood of insects is yellow, and the blood of lobsters is blue.
Minnows have teeth in their throat.
Sheep can recognize other sheep from pictures!
The typical bolt of lightning heats the atmosphere to 50,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
Earth travels through space at 66,700 miles per hour.
Children grow faster in the springtime than any other season during the year.
A domestic cat can frighten a black bear to climb a tree.
It takes glass one million years to decompose, which means it never wears out and can be recycled an infinite amount of times!
10% believe in the 10 Commandments.
A cucumber is 96% water.
A comet's tail always points away from the Sun.
Heineken beer is designed to 'foam' for exactly five minutes.
Marie Curie, the Nobel Prize-winning scientist who discovered radium, died as a result of over-exposure to radioactivity.
Catherine Zeta Jones' father owned a candy factory, but the star says she rarely indulged: 'I had so many sweets and candy hanging around my house that I never even bothered with them'.
Before he had his own show, Jerry Seinfeld appeared on three episodes of the TV show 'Benson' as the governor's speechwriter.
The lion that roars in the MGM logo is named Volney.
New Zealand is the first country to allow women to vote.
Spanning five miles between the upper and lower peninsulas of Michigan, The Mackinac Bridge is one of the longest suspension bridges in the world.
A typical American eats 28 pigs in his/her lifetime.
Ping-Pong is a registered trademark of Parker Brothers.
Every year, 2700 surgical patients go home from the hospital with metal tools, sponges, and other objects left inside them. In 2000, 57 people died as a result of these mistakes.
The majority of cats do not have any eyelashes.
The Leaning Tower of Pisa has never been straight.
Howdy Doody had 48 freckles.
The lungfish can live out of water for three years in a state of suspended animation.
The longest living cells in the body are brain cells which can live an entire lifetime.
Every year the Sun loses 360 million tons.
There's no Betty Rubble in the Flintstones Chewables Vitamins.
The native way to say I love you in Korean is Tangsinul sarang ha yo.
Copies of the Bible and the Koran small enough to fit in a walnut shell have been written by hand.
On August 3rd in 1914 Germany invades Belgium & declares war on France in WW I.
A 13-year-old boy, Bennie Benson, designed the Alaskan Flag in 1926.
Onions get their distinctive smell by soaking up sulfur from the soil.
Sri Lanka is the second largest tea-producer in the world.
A notch in a tree will remain the same distance from the ground as the tree grows.
The internet slang AFAIC means 'as far as I'm concerned'.
The word 'Christian' appears only three times in the Bible: Acts 11:26; 26:28; 1 Peter 4:16.
Before the year 1859 umpires sat in a rocking chair behind the catcher
A penny dropped from the top of a skyscraper could not kill someone (but could cause injury).
Edison Saved a Boy From a Runaway Train.
Michael Jackson has won the most grammies with a total of eight.
The tentacles of the giant Arctic jellyfish can reach 120 feet (36.6 meters) in length.
The surface of the Earth is about 60% water and 10% ice.
Wearing headphones for an hour increases the bacteria in your ear 700 times.
Mongolia is the largest landlocked country.
At 8,000 feet deep, Hells Canyon is the deepest river gorge in North America.
Sharks apparently are the only animals that never get sick. As far as is known, they are immune to every known disease including cancer.
Lake Baikal is the deepest lake in the world.
The white part of your fingernail is called the lunula.
A tornado 440 yards in width traveled twenty miles from near Hollow OK to western Cherokee County KS. Although a strong tornado, it was very slow moving, and gave a tremendous warning roar, and as a result no one was killed.
In 1984, a Canadian farmer began renting ad space on his cows.
You burn more calories sleeping than you do watching television.
Only about 10% of the lightning bolts strike the oceans
A company, Warner Communications paid $28 million for the copyright to the song 'Happy Birthday'.
An arabica coffee tree can produce up to 12 pounds of coffee a year, depending on soil and climate.
To remove rust spots from chrome car bumpers: Rub the bumper with a crumpled-up piece of Reynolds Wrap aluminum foil dipped in Coca Cola.
Enough beer is poured every Saturday across America to fill the Orange Bowl.
A cockroach can live for several weeks without its head.
Greenland is the largest island in the world.
The hairs on a polar bear are not white, but clear. They reflect light, so they appear white.
Benjamin Franklin was the fifth in a series of the youngest son of the youngest son.
The spring thaw finally allows cemeteries in Alaska to start digging graves for those who died during the winter.
In Atlanta, GA, it is illegal to tie a giraffe to a telephone pole or street lamp.
44% reuse tinfoil.
Though human noses have an impressive 5 million olfactory cells with which to smell, sheepdogs have 220 million, enabling them to smell 44 times better than man.
Texas is larger than France, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland and Luxembourg combined.
Tomatoes were originally thought to be poisonous.
The Trans-Alaska Pipeline moves up to 88,000 barrels of oil per hour on a 800 mile journey to Valdez.
20% of women consider their parents to be their best friends.
C3P0 is the first character to speak in Star Wars.
The Stegosaurus dinosaur measured up to 30 feet (9.1 meters) long but had a brain the size of a walnut.
Canola oil is actually rapeseed oil but the name was changed for marketing reasons!
Wheat is the world's most widely cultivated plant; grown on every continent except Antarctica.
The man who created the Thighmaster was once a Bhuddist Monk.
Bacteria that cause tooth decay, acne, tuberculosis, and leprosy can be cured with cashews.
Hockey is the National Game of India.
Every year, kids in North America spend close to half a billion dollars on chewing gum!
Italy owes much of its prosperity to thousands of small private family enterprises.
One pair of rats has the potential for 15,000 descendants in a year.
A 2 X 4 is really 1-1/2' by 3-1/2'.
10 out of a 100 parrots learn to talk.
Adjusting for inflation, Cleopatra, 1963, is the most expensive movie ever made to date (mid-2002). Its budget of $44 million is equivalent to 280 million 2002 dollars.
Until 1883, hemp was the world's largest agricultural crop, from which the majority of fabric, soap, paper, medicines, were produced.
Cast iron skillets used to be the leading source of iron in the American diet!
A large swarm of desert locusts (Schistocerca gregaria) can consume 20,000 tons (18,160,000 kilograms) of vegetation a day.
Ewan McGregor was offered, but turned down, the part of Neo in the Matrix. Will Smith was also approached to play Neo but turned it down in order make Wild Wild West.
Over 50% of lottery players go back to work after winning the jackpot.
The pigmy shrew - a relative of the mole - is the smallest mammal in North America. It weighs 1/14 ounce - less than a dime.
An ounce of platinum can be stretched 10,000 feet.
A female mackerel lays about 500,000 eggs at one time.
In one day an average person will take about 18,000 steps.
The Hubble Space Telescope weighs 12 tons (10,896 kilograms), is 43 feet (13.1 meters) long, and cost $2.1 billion to originally build.
Approximately 55% of movies released are Rated R.
In Scotland, Irn-Bru is a soft drink that is more popular than Coca-Cola. When mcdonalds opened in Glasgow and did not sell Irn-Bru, it was considered an insult, and the restaurant was subsequently boycotted.
In the average lifetime, a person will walk the equivalent of 5 times around the equator.
Dinosaurs evolved about 80 million years ago.
The cockroach dies from radiation and would not survive a nuclear war.
Buttermilk does not contain any butter.
Intel is a shortened name for Integrated Electronics. The company's founders wanted to use the full name when they went into business in 1968, but it was already in use.
Q is the only letter in the alphabet that does not appear in the name of any of the United States.
Jack is the most common name in nursery rhymes.
In Alaska it is illegal to whisper in someone's ear while they are moose hunting.
All Olympic medals must be minimum 60 millimeters in diameter.
A strand from the web of a golden spider is as strong as a steel wire of the same size.
Prince Charles and Prince William never travel on the same airplane as a precaution!
The top five favorite breeds of dogs in the US are: Labrador Retriever, Golden Retriever, German Shepherd, Beagle, and Dachshund.
The hair perm was invented in 1906 by Karl Ludwig Nessler of Germany.
All polar bears are left handed.
Your urine will turn bright yellow if you eat too much asparagus.
The Earth gets heavier each day by tons, as meteoric dust settles on it.
Every year the Amazon River flood an area the size of England.
The surface speed record on the Moon is 10.56 miles per hour. It was set with the lunar rover.
The Great Pyramid at Giza holds a constant temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit.
In 1982, a high school student from Los Angeles, California unscrambled the Rubik's Cube in 22.95 seconds.
We know more about the surface of the Moon than we do about the bottom of the ocean.
A single human blood cell takes only 60 seconds to make a complete circuit of the body.
The average person will spend two weeks over their lifetime waiting for the traffic light to change.
If all the gold suspended in the earth's oceans was 'mined', there would be enough for every person on earth to receive 9 pounds!
If California was a country, it would be the 5th largest economy in the world.
In Bangladesh, kids as young as 15 can be jailed for cheating on their finals!
The ashes of the average cremated person weigh nine pounds.
Rome is known as the 'Eternal city' and also 'Caput Mundi', coming from Latin and meaning capital of the world.
When hydrogen burns in the air, water is formed.
In Mel Brooks' 'Silent Movie,' mime Marcel Marceau is the only person who has a speaking role.
The penalty for masturbation in Indonesia is decapitation.
Hydroponics is the technique by which plants are grown in water without soil.
Stephen Hawking was born exactly 300 years after Galileo died.
Texas was one of the first states to adopt capital punishment by lethal injection \u2013 in 1977.
Most alcoholic beverages contain all 13 minerals necessary to sustain human life.
More water flows over Niagara Falls every year than over any other falls on earth.
Barbers are usually closed on Wednesday because Thai people believe it will bring bad luck to cut their hair that day of the week.
Samuel Carter of Elizabethton was the only person in American history to be both an Admiral in the Navy and a General in the Army.
In Mexico, the Tooth Fairy is known as the 'Tooth Mouse'.
The catfish has over 27,000 taste buds.
Cockroaches doesnt eat cucumbers.
Since New Mexico's climate is so dry 3/4 of the roads are left unpaved. The roads don't wash away.
In a lifetime the average US resident eats more than 50 tons of food and drinks more than 13,000 gallons of liquid.
Before adopting the euro, Italy's currency was known as the lira.
Ireland has won the most Eurovision song contests (7 times).
A cow farts about 600 litres of metangas every day. That is enough to fyll up 40 party ballons.
Warren Beatty once worked as a rat-catcher!
In 1957, the Shippingport Atomic Power Station in Pennsylvania went on line. It was the first nuclear facility to generate electricity in the United States.
Scotch tape, crossword puzzles, canned beer, and iced tea hadn't been invented.
Because radio waves travel at 186,000 miles per second and sound waves saunter at 700 miles per hour, a broadcast voice can be heard sooner 13,000 miles away than it can be heard at the back of the room in which it originated.
The word millionaire was first used by Benjamin Disraeli in his 1826 novel Vivian Grey.
57% save pretty gift paper to reuse.
Canadians can send letters with personalized postage stamps showing their own photos on each stamp.
The word 'biology' was coined in 1805 by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck.
The largest hailstone recorded fell on 14 April 1986 in Bangladesh weighing 1kg (2.25lbs). The hailstorm reportedly killed 92 people.
Andorra, a tiny country between France & Spain, has the longest average lifespan: 83.49 years.
The number of cars on the planet is increasing three times faster than the population growth.
25% of all fires of unknown origin are rat-caused.
Duracell, the battery-maker, built parts of its new international headquarters using materials from its own waste.
You can start a fire with ice.
Mineral deposits in caves: The ones growing upward are stalagmites, the ones growing downward are stalactites.
The actor Stewart Granger, changed his name because didn't like his real name. James Stewart.
The soccer ball's circumference is 27-28 inches. It is made of leather or rubber.
An iceberg contains more heat than a lit match.
Czechs are the biggest consumers of beer per male in the world.
To burn off one plain M&M candy, you need to walk the full length of a football field.
Many people in parts of China eat insects. Some common insects are bean worms, scoprions, and locusts.
Murphy's Oil Soap is the chemical most commonly used to clean elephants.
As much as 80% of microwaves from mobile phones are absorbed by your head!
Wine grapes, oranges, figs and olives were first planted in North America by Father Junipero Sera in 1769.
Only 6% of the autographs in circulation from members of the Beatles are estimated to be real.
In 2004, Virgin Atlantic Airlines introduced a double bed for first class passengers who fly together.
The Giant South African Earthworm can grow up to 22 feet long and 1 inch in thick.
The 'nine lives' attributed to cats is probably due to their having nine primary whiskers.
Gobbling starts before sunrise and can continue through most of the morning.
In Florida, penalty for horse theft is death by hanging.
Every day more money is printed for Monopoly than for the US Treasury.
Girls have more tastebuds than boys.
Ronald Reagan announced Chicago Cubs games for WHO radio in Des Moines. Later he became a famous movie and television actor.
The native way to say I love you in Mandarin is Wo ai ni.
A piano covers the full spectrum of all orchestra instruments, from below the lowest note of the double bassoon to above the top note of the piccolo.
King Louis XIX ruled France for 15 minutes.
By recycling just one glass bottle, the amount of energy that is being saved is enough to light a 100 watt bulb for four hours.
Oklahoma ranks fourth in the nation in the production of all wheat, fourth in cattle and calf production; fifth in the production of pecans; sixth in peanuts and eighth in peaches.
A Czech man, Jan Honza Zampa, holds the record for drinking one liter of beer in 4.11 seconds.
The Varsity in Atlanta is the world's largest drive-in fast food restaurant.
In the movie 'The Wizard Of Oz', Toto the dog's salary was $125 a week, while Judy Garland was $500 a week.
The Air Force's F-117 fighter uses aerodynamics discovered during research into how bumblebees fly.
Key West has the highest average temperature in the United States.
The ant, when intoxicated, will always fall over to its right side.
A dog's sense of smell is 1,000 times more sensitive than a humans.
The Eisenhower interstate system requires that one mile in every five must be straight. These straight sections are useable as airstrips in times of war or other emergencies.
The US has the highest documented per capita rate of imprisonment of any country in the world. About 2% of white males, 4% of Hispanic males and 10% of black males are incarcerated. There are more black males in prison than in colleges in the US.
Einstein Had Speech Difficulty as a Child.
A baby oyster is called a spat.
In 1950, President Harry Truman threw out the first ball twice at the opening day Washington DC baseball game; once right handed and once left handed.
22% of all restaurant meals include French fries.
10 years ago: First patent for a genetically-engineered mouse was issued to Harvard Medical School.
The first jigsaw puzzle was created by map maker John Splisbury who mounted one of his maps on a sheet of hardwood. He proceeded to cut around the borders of each country use a fine saw.
Pierce Brosnan is born in Israel on May 16th 1952.
Buzz Aldrin was the second man to set foot on the Moon. Moon was also his mother's maiden name.
In Miami, it is forbidden to imitate an animal.
Adolf Hitler's mother seriously considered having an abortion but was talked out of it by her doctor.
Amusement park attendance goes up after a fatal accident. It seems many people want to ride upon the same ride that killed someone.
Another name for a Microsoft Windows tutorial is 'Crash Course'!
Wyoming has the lowest population of all 50 United States.
The number 9 in Thai means progression.
The fragrance of flowers is due to the essences of oil which they produce.
The turkey was wrongly named after what was thought to be it's country of origin.
4 major religions has India as birthplace Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism.
The life expectancy at birth in Swaziland is estimated to be only 33 years old (as of 2005)!
Milk is heavier than cream.
The United States has more airports than any other nation (there are over 14,800).
The chances of making two holes-in-one in a round of golf are one in 67 million.
At 772 miles long, the New York City subway system is 81 miles longer than the state's 641 mile thruway system.
Dry cereal for breakfast was invented by John Henry Kellogg at the turn of the century.
The 'King Ranch' in Texas is bigger than the state of Rhode Island.
In 1800 on 50 cities on earth had a population of more than 100,000.
Chickens can't swallow when they are upside down.
If it were removed from the body, the small intestine would stretch to a length of 22 feet.
Prevents thread from tangling. Run a threaded needle through a sheet of Bounce to eliminate the static cling on the thread before sewing.
During warm weather hippopotamus's secrete sweat that is pink. This substance not only cools them down but also helps fight infections of the skin.
The two most famous actors who portrayed the 'Marlboro Man' in the cigarette ads died of lung cancer.
On some Caribbean islands, the oysters can climb trees.
There is a hotel in Sweden built entirely out of ice; it is rebuilt every year.
On April 17th 1524 New York Harbor was discovered by Giovanni Verrazano.
Las Vegas has more hotel rooms than any other place on earth.
As of 2002, China had over 100 million manufacturing workers compared to about 17 million in the US, 12 million in Japan, 8.5 million in Germany and 2.3 million in Canada.
The first known marketer of the flushing toilet was Thomas Crapper.
Muscles are made up of bundles from about 5 in the eyelid to about 200 in the buttock muscle.
A cow averages 40,000 jaw movements a day.
English novelist Arnold Bennet drank a glass of water in a Paris Hotel to prove it was safe. He died two months later of Typhoid!
A person will burn 7 percent more calories if they walk on hard dirt compared to pavement.
An adult female mosquito weighs only about 1/15,000 ounce (about 2.0 milligrams).
Virginia City, founded when the Comstock Lode was discovered, was home to 20,000 people at its peak in the 1870s but now has only about 800.
The average ocean floor is 12,000 feet.
About 10% of Jewish households have Christmas Trees.
The state of Maryland has no natural Lakes.
In Seattle, Washington, it is illegal to carry a concealed weapon that is over six feet in length.
Cats can see a lot better than dogs. In fact, dogs first distinguish objects by movement, then brightness, and finally by shape.
Saturn goes around the Sun very slowly, but spins on its axis extremely fast. A Saturn year lasts for more than 29 Earth years, but a Saturn day only lasts 10 hours and 14 minutes.
Movie detective Dirty Harry's badge number is 2211.
The citric acid in Coke removes stains from vitreous china.
There are a million ants for every person on Earth.
Iceland has no railway system or army!
There is one slot machine in Las Vegas for every eight inhabitants.
No 2 cornflakes are identical!
Recycling one glass jar saves enough energy to watch TV for 3 hours.
In 1902 while on a hunting expedition in Sharkey County, President Theodore (Teddy) Roosevelt refused to shoot a captured bear. This act resulted in the creation of the world-famous teddy bear.
The Atlantic Giant Squid's eye can be as large as 15.75 inches (40 centimeters) wide.
A raw steak is about 75% water.
An engineering marvel of the ancient world, Cloacus Maxima, is the sewer of Rome.
The native way to say I love you in Navajo is Ayor anosh'ni.
Papaphobia is the fear of Popes.
The North Carolina Museum of Art, in Raleigh, is the nation's only art museum whose collection was founded with state funds.
American Indians were the first to grow corn. They called it maize.
The oldest known vegetable is the pea.
The State of Florida is bigger than England.
Saffron, made from the dried stamens of cultivated crocus flowers, is the most expensive cooking spice.
If you go blind in one eye you only lose about one fifth of your vision but all your sense of depth.
Although he was acquitted of indecent behavior, not everyone believes Peking Tomm was innocent.
Because Saturn is tilted, when its rings are facing Earth edge on they 'disappear' from our view. We now know this happens every 14 years or so, but poor Galileo questioned his sanity when they 'disappeared' and then 'reappeared' on him a few years later.
Male monkeys lose the hair on their heads in the same way men do.
The sentence 'The quick brown fox jumps over a lazy dog.' uses every letter of the alphabet!
The trucking company Elvis Presley worked at as a young man was owned by Frank Sinatra.
Around 85% of Italians are registered Catholics however less than a third of that are practicing members.
The rose family of plants, in addition to flowers, gives us apples, pears, plums, cherries, almonds, peaches and apricots.
In Arkansas, oral sex is considered to be sodomy.
A baby octopus is about the size of a flea at birth.
The Australian billygoat plum contains 100 times more vitamin C than an orange.
Mexican women spend 15.3% of their life in ill health.
Approximately 40% of the U.S. paper currency in circulation was counterfeit by the end of the Civil War.
Go', is the shortest complete sentence in the English language.
Lebanon is the only country in the Middle East that does not have a desert.
Ancient Egyptians slept on pillows made of stone!
Cephalacaudal recapitulation is the reason our extremities develop faster than the rest of us.
The wild panda's diet consist 99% of bamboo.
The top layer of a wedding cake, known as the groom's cake, traditionally is a fruit cake. That way it will save until the first anniversery.
A human being drinks 16,000 tons of water in a lifetime.
Mr. Rogers was an ordained Presbyterian minister.
Breeze carries about 100 Million tons of sand particles around the earth yearly.
The dome on Monticello, Thomas Jefferson's home, conceals a billiards room. In Jefferson's day, billiards were illegal in Virginia.
Taj Mahal in India is a gift of love.
Plants that are not cared for will cry for help, a thirsty plant will make a high-pitched sound that is too high for us to hear.
Humans and cows have the same gestation period, which is about nine months.
Toilet paper was invented in 1857.
Ocean waves can travel as fast as a JET Plane.
Mosquitoes prefer children to adults, blondes to brunettes.
The telephone's U.S. patent number is 174 465.
When Saigon fell, the signal for all Americans to evacuate was Bing Crosby's 'White Christmas' being played on the radio.
Manatees possess vocal chords which give them the ability to speak like humans, but don't do so because they have no ears with which to hear the sound.
Domestic cats hate lemons or other citrus scents.
NASA's Cassini team will come to bat twice this month when the spacecraft flies by Saturn's geyser moon, Enceladus.
Texas horned toads can shoot blood out of the corners of their eyes.
A single cup of gasoline, when ignited, has the same explosive power as five sticks of dynamite.
An earthquake on Dec. 16, 1811 caused parts of the Mississippi River to flow backwards!
It takes 492 seconds for sunlight to reach the Earth!
Einstein Failed his University Entrance Exam.
The praying mantis is the only insect that can turn its head!
According to an old English system of time units, a moment is one and a half minutes.
Music can help reduce chronic pain by more than 20% and can alleviate depression by up to 25%.
In 1985, the most popular waist size for men's pants was 32. In 2003, it's 36.
The native way to say I love you in Finnish is Mina' rakastan sinua
The native way to say I love you in Portuguese is Eu te amo.
The thong accounts for 25% of the United States women's underwear market.
In the US, federal law states that children's TV shows may contain only 10 minutes of advertising per hour and on weekends the limit is 10 and one-half minutes.
Energy is being wasted if a toaster is left plugged in after use.
On January 13th 1969 Beatles release the 'Yellow Submarine' album.
If you rearrange the words 'Funeral' you can spell 'Real Fun'
A pound of potato chips costs 200 times more than a pound of potatoes.
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre was originally entitled Headcheese, but was changed at the last minute.
Malaria is one of the most deadly diseases in the world.
In Island boxing was not allowed before 2002.
At the moment of conception, you spent about half an hour as a single cell.
Inventor Eli Whitney began manufacturing his cotton gins, which revolutionized the economy of the South, at New Haven in 1793.
Traces of cocaine were found on 99% of UK bank notes in a survey in London in 2000.
The Idiom 'take to like a duck to water' means to learn how to do something very quickly and to enjoy doing it.
Newton Almost Became a Farmer.
The native way to say I love you in Slovene is ljubim te.
To protect their eyes from blowing sand, camels have three sets of eyelids.
It's impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
The planet Saturn has a density lower than water. So, if placed in water it would float.
1/3 of Taiwanese funeral processions include a stripper.
The plant life contained in the oceans of the world makes up 85 percent of all our greenery.
Ketchup was sold in the 1830s as medicine.
By partially filling saucers with vinegar and distributing the saucers around a room, you can eliminate odors.
Thailand coastline stredges 3219 km.
The energy of a discharge of an electric eel could start 50 cars.
Jell-O, marshmallows, French's Mustard, and gold teeth were all developed in Rochester.
A cat uses its whiskers to determine if a space is too small to squeeze through. The whiskers act as feelers or antennae, helping the animal to judge the precise width of any passage.
Denmark has more than 600 castles and manor houses.
The surface of the human skin is 6.5 square feet (2m).
Casey Kasem is the voice of Shaggy on the cartoon show Scooby-Doo. Casey Kasem, being a strict vegetarian, also requested that Shaggy follow the same diet on the show.
Roses cut in the afternoon last longer than ones cut in the morning.
The most common name in Italy is Mario Rossi.
In 1993, the board of governors at Carl Karcher Enterprises voted (5 to 2) to fire Carl Karcher. Carl Karcher is the founder of Carls Jr. restaurants.
The White House in Washington, DC was the biggest house in the United States until the Civil War.
The Italian flag is inspired by the French flag introduced during Napoleon's 1797 invasion of the peninsula.
A dentist, William Semple, invented chewing gum to exercise his jaws.
Spiders have transparent blood.
Actress Liv Tyler first realized she might be singer Steve Tyler's daughter at the age of 11 when she went to a Steve Tyler concert and realized how much she looked like him.
The largest coal mine in the USA is Black Thunder located near Wright.
The Arctic ocean is the smallest and shallowest. It is mostly covered by solid ice, ice floes, and icebergs.
Each finger and toenail takes six months to grow from base to tip.
A crocodile always grows new teeth to replace the old teeth!
Cows can sleep standing up.
Bacterias are invisible to the naked eye (an average 1,000 nanometers long) and can only be seen with the aid of a light microscope.
A salmon-rich, low cholesterol diet means that Inuits rarely suffer from heart disease.
Melbourne, Australia has an 8 p.m. curfew for cats.
The Olympic flag was designed in 1913 by Baron Pierre de Coubertin.
In Japan, it is completely acceptable to name your child 'Buttocks' or 'Prostitute'!
In addition to its state song, Washington also has an official state folk song:Roll on Columbia, Roll On.
Felix the Cat is the first cartoon character to ever have been made into a balloon for a parade.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run. The only other animals to do this are the giraffe and the camel.
The elements Carbon, Hydrogen, Oxygen, and Nitrogen - all crucial to life - are found in roughly the same proportions in comets and human beings.
Absolutely pure gold is so soft that it can be molded with the hands.
Chances that a burglary in the United States will be solved: 1 in 7.
English soldiers were called Tommies because the example name on the soldier forms was Thomas Atkins. (The example name on US forms is John Smith.)
A cat sees about six times better than a human at night because of the tapetum lucidum , a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
A coffee tree yields about one pound of coffee in a year.
Romeo and Juliet, Othello, The Merchant of Venice, Antony and Cleopatra, Coriolanus, Cymbeline, Much Ado About Nothing, Othello, The Taming of the Shrew, Titus Andronicus, The Two Gentlemen of Verona,The Winter's Tale.
Rainbow Bridge is the world's largest natural bridge. The bridge rises 290 feet above the floor of Bridge Canyon and is 270 feet long.
The world's largest amphibian is the giant salamander. It can grow up to 5 ft. in length.
In 30 minutes, the average body gives off enough heat (combined) to bring a half gallon of waterto boil.
Sir Isaac Newton invented the cat door.
A British gymnast survived a fall from a fourth story window because he went into a somersault and came down on two feet.
If you rearrange the words 'A Gentleman' you can spell 'Elegant Man'
Chicago is closer to Moscow than it is to Rio de Janeiro.
An Olympic gold medal must contain 92.5 percent silver.
The first Komodo dragons to breed in the western world are at the National Zoo at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington, D.C.
A male baboon can kill a leopard.
Approximately 7.5% of all office documents get lost.
Opera came about in the baroque era (around the year 1600) - a major musical innovation or development in that era.
It costs about 3 cents to make a $1 bill in the United States.
The native way to say I love you in Bulgarian is Obicham te.
Over 4 billion pounds of the vegetable in 1989.
That means if you live in America-you could have Sand that came from the Gobi desert in China.
91% of us lie regularly.
The human heart creates enough pressure while pumping to squirt blood 30 feet!
On August the 3rd 1980 Duke Snider & Al Kaline enter baseball's Hall of Fame.
Lloyd's of London began as Edward Lloyd's coffeehouse.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe once said love does not dominate; it cultivates.
Nearly 80% of West Virginia is covered with forests.
Only one or two meteorites per day reach the surface of Earth.
Air sacs may make up 1/5 of the body volume of a bird.
The first known dinosaur skeleton was found in New Jersey in 1858.
At the age of 7, Reese Witherspoon appeared in a television commercial fora local Nashville Florist.
Oberlin College, founded in 1833, was the first college in the United States to admit women.
Barry Manilow sang, but did not write, the 1976 chart-topping song I Write the Songs.
An inch (2.5 centimeters) of rain water is equivalent to 15 inches (38.1 centimeters) of dry, powdery snow.
In 1932 James Markham obtained the 1st patent issued for a tree. The patent was for a peach tree.
Former U.S. President Franklin Pierce was arrested during his term as President for running over an old lady with his horse, but the charges were later dropped.
The majority of Yellowstone Park lies within the boundaries of Wyoming.
At room temperature, the average air molecule travels at the speed of a rifle bullet.
A Boeing 767 airliner is made of 3,100,000 separate parts.
Arabic numerals are not really Arabic; they were created in India.
A rabbit's teeth never stop growing.
Dry fish food can make goldfish constipated.
The Eiffel Tower shrinks 6 inches in winter.
New York was the first capital of the United States.
If you rearrange the words 'Mother-in-law' you can spell 'Woman Hitler'
Negative emotions such as anxiety and depression can weaken your immune system.
The U.S. military's dried food rations can be re-hydrated with urine!
Abraham Lincoln went to school for less than a year. He taught himself to read and write.
The Poodle haircut was originally meant to improve the dog's swimming abilities as a retriever, with the pom-poms left in place to warm their joints.
In Louisiana, a bill was introduced years ago in the State House of Representatives that fixed a ceiling on haircuts for bald men of 25 cents.
Elvis Presley got a 'C' in his eighth grade music class.
About 1200 hotels can be found in London.
Sesame Street premiered on November 10th 1969.
Spider Monkeys will use all five appendages; arms, legs and tail, to scramble through trees.
Wipe the blinds with a sheet of Bounce to prevent dust from resettling.
Inside the body viruses produce toxins (poisons) that can cause rashes, aches and fevers.
More than 90% of shark attack victims survive.
There were approximately 269 million mobile phones in use in China in 2003, more than any other country.
The 7-Eleven Extreme Gulp is 50% bigger than the volume of the human stomach!
Switzerland has the highest per-capita consumption of soft drinks in the world.
Until President Kennedy was killed, it wasn't a federal crime to assassinate the President.
Making a simple vase out of the precious stone - Jade, may take more than two years of work.
13% of us admit to occasionally doing our offspring's homework.
During landing of a space shuttle, it takes approximately one minute between touchdown of the wheels and wheelstop, the point at which the shuttle comes to a complete stop.
There are 1.6 million inventions under active patent in the United States.
New York has the most extensive public library facilities in the United States, including the New York Public Library, one of the nation's largest.
Drinking 5 glasses of water daily decreases the risk of colon cancer by 45%, plus it can slash the risk of breast cancer by 79%, and one is 50% less likely to develop bladder cancer.
Knowledge is growing so fast that ninety per cent of what we will know in fifty years time, will be discovered in those fifty years.
Nicole Kidman is scared of butterflies.
There was once an undersea post office in the Bahamas.
The African lungfish can live out of water for up to four years.
Colgate toothpaste makes an excellent salve for burns.
Zeppo Marx (the unfunny one of the Marx Brothers) had a patent for a wristwatch with a heart monitor.
A Cornish game hen is really a young chicken, usually 5 to 6 weeks of age, that weighs no more than 2 pounds.
Bob Hope and Billy Joel were both once boxers.
In the 14th century the Black Death killed 75,000,000 people. It was carried by fleas on the black rat.
Shanghai, China boasts 4,000 skyscrapers - double the number in New York City.
The only married couple to fly together in space were Jan Davis and Mark Lee, who flew aboard the Endeavour space shuttle from September 12-20, 1992.
The body's largest internal organ is the small intestine at an average length of 20 feet.
Adena burial mounds are the largest example of the distinctive constructions created by Native American mound builders.
It's rumored that sucking on a copper penny will cause a breathalyzer to read 0. Myth Busters on the Discovery Channel proved this wrong.
From 1890 to 1900, 20 tons of ivory were shipped every year from Siberia to London. All of this ivory was taken from the remains of woolly mammoths, which have been extinct since the Ice Age.
There is enough fuel in a full tank of a jumbo jet to drive an average car four times around the world.
About 20% of gift cards never are redeemed at the full value of the card.
Hydrogen is the most abundant element in the Universe (75%).
Alexander Graham Bell (who invented the telephone) also set a world water-speed record of over seventy miles an hour at the age of 72.
Henry Ford, father of the Automobile, is also father of the charcoal briquette.
During an average lifetime, a man will spend 3,350 hours removing 8.4 meters of stubble.
23.5% admit they don't always flush.
San Francisco has no cemeteries.
Each day is longer than the previous on by 0.00000002 seconds which is 13 seconds each century!
In Georgia, it is against the law to slap a man on the back or front.
The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
The little bags of netting for gas lanterns (called 'mantles') are radioactive...so much so that they will set of an alarm at a nuclear reactor.
A full seven percent of the entire Irish barley crop goes to the production of Guinness beer.
Light snow falls in Canberra during most years, but it rarely accumulates to more than a few centimeters.
Mutual of Omaha Corporate headquarters is a public building built with 7 floors underground.
Every day, 7% of the US eats at McDonald's.
Cleopatras real name was Auletes!
The top 109 highest mountains in the world are all in Asia and 96 of them are in the Himalayas.
All Texas rivers empty into the Gulf of Mexico.
In 1927, Edwin E. Perkins of Hastings invented the powdered soft drink Kool-Aid.
Playing cards were issued to British pilots in WWII. If captured, they could be soaked in water and unfolded to reveal a map for escape.
Rattlesnakes do not always rattle before they strike.
A Python can swallow a rabbit whole and may eat as many as 150 mice in a six month period.
Under-sea volcanoes that erupted thousands of years ago formed the islands of Hawaii.
There were 240 pedestrian fatalities in New York City in 1994.
A volcano has enough power to shoot ash as high as 50 km into the atmosphere.
Most elephants weigh less than the tongue of a blue whale.
Wilburn D. Cook, designer of Beverly Hills, California, developed the suburb of Highland Park.
The amount of chlorine that a human body contains is enough for the disinfection of five swimming pools
If a dog lives to be 11 years old, it will cost approximately $13,550 to own that dog.
Cattle are the only mammals that pee backwards.
Global sales of pre-recorded music total more than $40 billion.
Seoul, the South Korean capital, just means 'the capital' in the Korean language.
No matter where you stand in Michigan, you are never more than 85 miles from a Great Lake.
Certain fireflies emit a light so penetrating that it can pass through flesh and wood.
Nearly 60% of Mississippi is covered by forests, and more than 100 species of trees are found in the state.
When you walk down a steep hill, the pressure on your knees is equal to three times your body weight.
The origins of bowling is Germany.
Air becomes liquid at about minus 190 degrees Celsius.
Take your height and divide by eight. That's how tall your head is!
The Sopranos star Edie Falco once played Sesame Street' s Cookie Monster at a wedding. Her job was to encourage guests to get up on the dance floor.
US Presidents who died on July 4th: John Adams and Thomas Jefferson died in 1826, James Monroe died in 1831.
A hard working adult sweats up to 4 gallons per day. Most of the sweat evaporates before a person realizes it's there, though!
There are about 5,000 prince and princesses in each Saudi Arabian royal.
Car airbags kill 1 person for every 22 lives that they save.
A cow produces 200 times more gas a day than a person.
All the planets in the solar system are at a different distance from the Sun in the following order: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto.
The world's first computer, called the Z1, was invented by Konrad Zuse in 1936. His next invention, the Z2 was finished in 1939 and was the first fully functioning electro-mechanical computer.
The average housefly lives only two weeks.
Roman Emperor Caligula made his horse a senator.
The female Tarantula Hawk wasp paralyzes a large spider with her sting. She then lays her eggs on the motionless body so that her developing young have a fresh supply of spider meat to feed on.
About 700 litres of paint is used when Easyjet paint one of their planes.
There are 1,792 steps to the top of the Eiffel Tower.
12 newborns will be given to the wrong parents daily.
The Mississippi River is the largest in the United States and is the nation's chief waterway. Its nickname is Old Man River.
About 50% of the residents in India are under 25 years old.
Originally, Du Pont, Inc. was a tiny gun powder mill in New Jersey.
Honey is used sometimes for antifreeze mixtures and in the center of golf balls.
On August 3rd 1974 Guitarist Jeff Baxter quits Steely Dan & joins Doobie Brothers
The Olympic was the sister ship of the Titanic, and she provided twenty-five years of service.
No other state has as dense a system of highways and railroads as New Jersey.
The orginally Susan Weaver, Sigourney picked out her unusual new name from a character in the novel, The Great Gatsby.
Whoopi Goldberg's real name is Caryn Elaine Johnson.
The japanese smiley (@_@) means ill/hangover.
Humans might be the only animal that throw snowballs.
You mostly breathe from only one nostril at a time!
5% of the world population lives in the US but 22% of the world's prisons population are held in the US.
The oldest person on record is Methuselah (969 years old).
Abe Lincoln's mother died when the family dairy cow ate poisonous mushrooms and Ms. Lincoln drank the milk.
King Kong was Adolf Hitler's favorite movie.
Percentage of American men who say they would marry the same woman if they had it to do all over again: 80%.
Pope John Paul II is the world's Scrabble champion in the over-70 category.
Anhedonia is an inability to experience pleasure from normally pleasurable experiences.
The world's largest solar telescope is located at Kitts Peak National Observatory in the city of Sells.
Sheep prefer to drink running water.
In 1843, a Parisian street mime got stuck in his imaginary box and consequently died of starvation.
A Brussels Airlines flight to Vienna was aborted because the pilot was attacked in the cockpit. The attacker was a passenger's cat, who got out of its travel bag.
The lucky numbers of the snake is: 1, 2, 4, 6, 13, 24, 42 & 46
In Pakistan, goats are often sacrificed to improve the performance of the stock market.
It's against the law to burp, or sneeze in a certain church in Omaha, Nebraska!
Your left lung is smaller than your right lung to make room for your heart.
Partial solar eclipses can be seen up to 3,000 miles from the track of totality.
Indoor pollution is 10 times more toxic than outdoor pollution.
41% of the Moon is not visible from earth at any time.
Extremely high pressured water can easily cut through a steel beam.
The only known poisonous bird in the world is the hooded pitohui of Papua, New Guinea. The poison is found in its skin and feathers.
In 2003, there were 86 days of below-freezing weather in Hell, Michigan.
Active membership in the United Auto Workers union at the Big Three auto makers has declined from 800,000 members in 1970 to around 270,000 members in 2005.
Until 1796, there was a state in the United States called Franklin. Today it is known as Tennessee.
Sheryl Crow's front two teeth are fake \u2013 she had them knocked out when she tripped on the stage earlier in her career.
Twelve or more cows is called a 'flink'.
In soccer shoulder to shoulder contact is allowed.
Today's top fuel dragsters take off with more force than the space shuttle.
The Declaration of Independence was written on hemp (marijuana) paper.
British cops didn't carry guns in 1969.
Until the 1960's men with long hair were not allowed to enter Disneyland
There are 35 million digestive glands in the stomach.
Real diamonds can be made from peanut butter!
The muzzle of a lion is like a fingerprint. No two lions have the same pattern of whiskers.
The native way to say I love you in Ukranian is Ya tebe kokhayu/Ja pokokhav tebe.
If you add together all the numbers on a roulette wheel (1 to 36) the total is the mystical number 666.
Mars Pathfinder, consisting of a lander and the Sojourner rover, returned an unprecedented amount of data as they explored an ancient flood plain in Mars' northern hemisphere known as Ares Vallis.
A cow gives nearly 200,000 glasses of milk in her lifetime.
The human feet perspire half a pint of fluid a day.
In 1958, Thomas Watson, the chairman of IBM forecast a world market for only 5 computers.
The US national anthem actually has four verses, but everyone just knows the first one. When the whole anthem is sung, the third verse is usually omitted.
Statue of Liberty: There are 154 steps from the pedestal to the head of the Statue of Liberty.
A 'hairbreadth away' is 1/48 of an inch. (0,07375 cm)
The area of the earth is almost 200 million square miles.
The first basketball league game was held between the Toronto Huskies and the New York Knickerbockers at Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto Canada on November 1, 1946. New York won the game by 68-66.
The smallest is the male sperm.
The world's tallest Xmas tree at 221ft high was erected in a Washington shopping mall in 1950.
According to Genesis 1:20-22 the chicken came before the egg.
In the southern hemisphere, water always swirl anti-clockwise down into a pipe.
If the Sun were the size of a beach ball then Jupiter would be the size of a golf ball and the Earth would be as small as a pea.
A broken clock is always right twice a day.
In the original version of Cinderella the slipper was made out of fur, not glass!
Infant beavers are called kittens.
Cranberries are sorted for ripeness by bouncing them; a fully ripened cranberry can be dribbled like a basketball.
In Holland, you can be fined for not using a shopping basket at a grocery store!
In the Middle English the word 'minister' meant 'lowly person.' It was originally adopted as a term of humility for men of the church.
An albatross can sleep while it flies!
In 1997 fourteen percent of the one million citizens of Nairobi, Kenya carry the AIDS virus. Some 20% of the Kenyan military is infected.
Adolf Hitler had only one testicle.
Italy has two large islands, Sicily and Sardinia , as well as a number of smaller islands.
The bones of a pigeon weigh less than its feathers.
2 out of 3 adults in the United States have hemorrhoids.
Only 2 blue moons (the saying 'only once in a blue moon ' refers to the occurrence of two full moons during one calendar month) are to occur between now and 2001. Those times are January 1999 and March 1999.
The world's record for continuous pogo stick jumping is 41 hours.
Money isn't made out of paper; it's made out of cotton.
The Earth is 0.2 degrees hotter during a full moon.
Importance of Drinking Enough Water.
In 1995, KFC sold 11 pieces of chicken for every man, woman and child in the US.
La Paz, the capital city of Bolivia, is the highest capital in the world at over 17,000 feet (5,181 m).
75% of all immigrants who come to US are settled in California, New Jersey, Florida, New York, Illinois and Texas.
Wounds infested with maggots heal quickly and without spread of gangrene or other infection.
Mexico City is built on top of an underground reservoir!
A cow releases about 125 gallons of gas per day.
The sting from a killer bee contains less venom than the sting from a regular bee!
Andy Wharhol IQ Score 86.
Baby robins eat 14 feet of earthworms every day.
Insects outnumber humans 100,000,000 to one.
Eric Clapton did not play the very famous first riff on the song 'Layla'. That was Duane Allman. Clapton comes in later.
The Egyptians thought it was good luck to enter a house left foot first.
Lewis and Clark spent more consecutive days in North Dakota than in any other state.
Iceland has the most Internet users per capita of any country in the world with over 86 percent of people using the Web, compared with only 69 percent of Americans.
The Oscar statuette was designed by MGM's art director, Cedric Gibbons, in 1928. The design has remained unchanged, except for getting a higher pedestal in the 1940's.
The Skylab astronauts grew 1.5 - 2.25 inches (3.8 - 5.7 centimeters) due to spinal lengthening and straightening as a result of zero gravity.
There are more than one million animal species on Earth!
The WD in WD-40 stands for Water Displacer.
Armadillos can walk underwater.
Most live rattlesnakes held in the mouth; Jackie Bibby held 10 rattlesnakes by their tails in his mouth .
Currently, the 'Texas Star' Ferris wheel at the State Fair of Texas is the tallest in North America.
Barack Obama is the first african-american to become president.
Back in the mid to late 80's, an IBM compatible computer wasn't considered a hundred percent compatible unless it could run Microsoft's Flight Simulator.
Proportional to their weight, men are stronger than horses.
99% of the solar system's mass is concentrated in the Sun.
Beaver teeth are so sharp that Native Americans once used them as knife blades.
Titanic was running at 22 knots when she hit the iceberg.
The giant squid has the largest eyes in the world.
President John F Kennedy could read 4 newspapers in 20 minutes.
When opossums are 'playing 'possum,' they are not playing. They actually pass out from sheer terror.
The state with the longest coastline in the Continental U.S. is Michigan.
Lassie, the TV collie, first appeared in a 1930s short novel titled Lassie Come-Home written by Eric Mowbray Knight. The dog in the novel was based on Knight's real life collie, Toots.
Lewis Carroll wrote 98,721 letters in the last 37 years of his life.
A single snowstorm can drop 40 million tons of snow, carrying the energy equivalent to 120 atom bombs.
If you were to spell out numbers, you would you have to go until 1,000 until you would find the letter 'A'.
Hotel Caribe was the first hotel in Aruba. It opened in 1934.
The British, the highest per capita spenders on music, buy 7.2% of the world music market.
The first computer company to register for a domain name was Digital Equipment Corporation.
One punishment for an adulterous wife in medieval France was to make her chase a chicken through town naked.
The San Francisco Cable cars are the only mobile National Monuments.
The wheelbarrow is invented by a Chinese.
Mosquitoes can fly about 1 to 1.5 miles per hour.
25% of your bones are located in your feet.
Pigs can cover a mile in 7.5 minutes when running at top speed.
Caviar, or fish eggs, contain the same healthful omega-3 fatty acids as salmon.
Hair is made from the same substance as fingernails.
Cows do not have any upper front teeth. Instead they have a thick pad on the top jaw.
The most expensive shoes was sold at Harrods in London for $1.6 million
In Newport, Rhode Island it is illegal to smoke from a pipe after sunset.
Buckingham Palace has 602 rooms.
Angelina Jolie's uncle who looks just like John Voight, Chip Taylor, wrote the song 'Wild Thing'.
The saturn V rocket which carried man to the Moon develops power equivalent to fifty 747 jumbo jets.
Cape Canaveral is America's launch pad for space flights.
A teaspoon of neutron star material weighs about 110 million tons.
Sandra Bullock is allergic to horses!
Humans blink over 10,000,000 times a year!
The Earth orbits the Sun at an average velocity of approximately 30 kilometers per second (18 miles per second). Planets closer to the Sun travel faster in their orbits and planets further away travel slower.
A person swallows approximately 295 times while eating dinner.
Quasars emit more energy than 100 giant galaxies.
Arizona observes Mountain Standard Time on a year round basis, never observing daylight savings time.
The native way to say I love you in Hebrew is anee oheivet otkha(female to male) and anee oheiv otakh (male to female) and Ani ohev at (man to woman) or Ani ohevet atah (woman to man).
In 1998, Sony accidently sold 700,000 camcorders that had the technology to see through people's clothes.
The first penny had the motto 'Mind your own business'.
Some insects can live up to a year without their heads.
It takes up to four hours to hard boil an ostrich egg.
Italy borders Austria, France, Vatican City, San Marino, Slovenia, and Switzerland.
A rat can last longer without water than a camel.
Legislation passed during WWI making it illegal to say 'gesundheit' to a sneezer was never repealed.
Saturn is huge. It is the second largest planet in our Solar System. Only Jupiter is bigger. If you could line them up, more than nine earths would fit across Saturn.
Beavers have orange teeth!
If a surgeon in Ancient Egypt lost a patient while performing an operation, his hands were cut off.
A snowflake can take up to a hour to fall from the cloud to the surface of the Earth.
England's national sport is cricket and not football.
The seeds of an Indian Lotus tree remain viable for 300 to 400 years.
The average Japanese household watches more than 10 hours of television a day.
William Morgan invented volleyball in Holyoke in 1895. It was first called 'Mintonette,' and later changed to volleyball.
The speed of light, at 670 million mph, sounds very fast. But a light ray, at this speed, would take about 26 billion years to cross the visible universe.
Budweiser beer is named after a town in Czechoslovakia.
All lilies are poisonous to cats.
The USA has more personal computers than the next 7 countries combined.
Women blink nearly twice as much as men.
The most dangerous airports to land an aircraft was the Hong Kong airport before 1997.
Fried chicken is the most popular meal ordered in sit-down restaurants in the US. The next in popularity are: roast beef, spaghetti, turkey, baked ham, and fried shrimp.
Tobacco was once Virginia's sole economic crop.
Americans eat more than 16 pounds of French fries per person annually.
Andrew Jackson IQ Score 123.
Golden Gate Bridge took about four years to build.
A duck's quack doesn't echo, and no one knows why.
46.5% of men say they ALWAYS put the seat down after they've used the toilet, yet women claim to ALWAYS find it up.
In downtown Lima, Peru, there is a large brass statue dedicated to Winnie-the-Pooh.
The town of Calma, Chile in the Atacama Desert has never had rain.
Barely a third of Italy's land is arable and suitable for farming.
Proportional to their size, cats have the largest eyes of all mammals.
The name Dublin is a derivation of Dubh Linn meaning Black Pool.
On August 3rd 1973 Flash fire kills 51 at amusement park. (Isle of Man, UK)
The Seven Wonders of Georgia include Providence Canyon, Warm Springs, Okefenokee Swamp, Tallulah Gorge, Amicalola Falls, Stone Mountain, and Radium Springs.
Each American eats an average of 51 pounds of chocolate per year.
The male gypsy moth can 'smell' the virgin female gypsy moth from 1.8 miles away!
On August 3rd 1952 15th Olympic games closed in Helsinki Finland.
It takes forty minutes to hard boil an ostrich egg.
The Saint Cecilia Society, organized in 1767, sponsored America's first symphony orchestra.
Invertebrate life began on earth about 600 million years ago.
60 years ago: Otto Hahn discovered nuclear fission by splitting uranium, Teflon was invented.
Hannibal had only one eye after getting a disease while attacking Rome.
The state nickname of Iowa is The Hawkeye State.
Only humans sleep on their backs.
Two-thirds of the world's eggplant is grown in New Jersey.
The three most valuable brand names on earth: Marlboro, Coca-Cola, and Budweiser, in that order.
Cows have four-chambered stomachs.
Earth is the only planet not named after a god.
A stroke of lightning discharges from 10 to 100 million volts & 30,000 amperes of electricity.
No one knows who designed the first American Flag.
Left handed people live slightly shorter lives than right handed people.
SONY was originally called 'Totsuken'.
Pele retired in 1977.
It took 13 years for television to reach 50 million users - it took the Internet less than 4 years.
The native way to say I love you in Maltese is Inhobbok!
An elephant's tooth can weigh as much as 12 pounds.
The smallest bone in the human body is the stapes or stirrup bone located in the middle ear. It is approximately .11 inches (28 cm) long.
The stonefish, which lives off the coast of Australia, is the most poisonous fish in the world.
People spend about two weeks of their lives at traffic lights!
10% of us claim to have seen a ghost.
The native way to say I love you in Luo is Aheri.
The most popular drink in Britain is Tea.
The two most common last names in Japan is Sato and Suzuki.
Aunt Jemima pancake flour, invented in 1889, was the first ready-mix food to be sold commercially.
Toxic house plants poison more children than household chemicals.
Nepal is the only country that doesn't have a rectangular flag.
If a native Hawaiian woman places the flower on her right ear, she is available.
In Kentucky, 50% of the people who get married for the first time are teenagers.
One out of three employees who received a promotion use a coffee mug with the company logo on it.
Denver, Colorado lays claim to the invention of the cheeseburger.
Afghanistan joined the United Nation (UN) 19 November 1946.
On August 3rd in 1860 American Canoe Association founded at Lake George NY.
No president of the United States was an only child.
All 17 children of Queen Anne died before she did.
There is an ATM at McMurdo Station in Antarctica, which has a winter population of 200.
In seventy-five years the human heart pumps 3,122,000,000 gallons of blood, enough to fill in oil tanker over 46 times.
The Red Desert in south central Wyoming drains neither to the east nor to the west. The continental divide splits and goes around the desert on all sides leaving the basin without normal drainage.
Some cultures kiss by biting off each other's eyelashes.
Maine is the toothpick capital of the world.
Newest trend in the Netherlands: Tiny jewels implanted directly into the eye.
If you kiss someone for one minute you will burn about 6 - 7 calories.
To take an oath, ancient Romans put a hand on their testicles.
Close to 80% of people who watch the Super Bowl on television, only do so to view the commercials.
Elephants, lions, and camels roamed Alaska 12,000 years ago.
The Alps are the most densely populated mountain area in the world.
The first Fords had engines made by Dodge.
Most hamsters blink one eye at a time.
The most yolks ever found in a single chicken's egg is nine.
State with the highest percentage of people who walk to work: Alaska.
Penny Marshall was the first woman film director to have a film take in more than $100 million at the box office - she accomplished this with the 1988 flick Big.
The first bomb the Allies dropped on Berlin in WWII killed the only elephant in the Berlin Zoo.
Julia Roberts is a vegetarian.
Almost 20% of Italy's population is over 65 years old.
Approximately 365 million people in the world have computers while half of the world's 6.5 billion population has never seen or used a telephone.
The arctic ice is receding and global warming is no longer a theory but a reality.
The native way to say I love you in Japanese is Kimi o ai shiteru.
The native way to say I love you in Farsi(Persian), Iran-dialects is Tora dust midaramin.
In Utah, it is illegal to swear in front of a dead person.
Never hold your nose and cover your mouth when sneezing, as it can blow out your eyeballs.
Dogs are mentioned 14 times in the Bible, and lions 55 times, but domestic cats are not mentioned at all.
Every day, the average person produces about a quart of mucus.
Orville Wright was involved in the first aircraft accident. His passenger, a Frenchman, was killed.
Arthur Conan Doyle, author of the Sherlock Holmes stories, was an ophthalmologist by profession!
WAL-MART generates $3,000,000.00 in revenues every 7 minutes!
There are more beetles than any other kind of creature in the world.
The Les Nessman character on the TV series WKRP in Cincinnati wore a band-aid in every episode. Either on himself, his glasses, or his clothing.
In 1983, a Japanese artist made a copy of the Mona Lisa completely out of toast.
If NASA sent birds into space they would soon die; they need gravity to swallow.
In its entire lifetime, the average worker bee produces 1/12th teaspoon of honey.
In Quebec, there is an old law that states margarine must be a different color than butter.
The lucky numbers of the rat is: 1, 3, 5, 9, 15, 19 & 35
Kim Basinger once threw her modeling portfolio off the Brooklyn Bridge.
Leonardo da Vinci could write with the one hand and draw with the other simultaneously.
A Scot named Robert Donaldson became the first player to score a league goal for the team that was to become Manchester United.
In Nebraska, It is illegal for bar owners to sell beer unless they are simultaneously brewing a kettle of soup.
World wide, consumers spend more than $7 billion a year on chocolate. Annual per capita consumption of chocolate is 12 pounds per person.
'Wireless' communications took a giant leap forward in 1962 with the launch of Telstar, the first satellite capable of relaying telephone and satellite TV signals.
It's pretty windy on Saturn. Winds around the planet's equator can reach 1,800 kilometers (1,118 miles) per hour. In comparison, the fastest winds on Earth 'only' reach about 400 kilometers ( about 250 miles) per hour.
The farther a planet is from the Sun, the longer its year.
In France it is still illegal to name a pig Napoleon.
A bird requires more food in proportion to its size than a baby or a cat.
In 1920, 57% of Hollywood movies billed the female star above the leading man. In 1990, only 18% had the leading lady given top billing.
An estimated 257 tons of ivory was poached worldwide in 2006. In order to harvest that much ivory, approximately 23,000 elephants would have to be killed illegally.
A scallop has 35 blue eyes.
Dairy cows can produce 20 to 35 gallons of saliva a day.
Since 1952, Hungary has won the most gold medals in the Olympics, in soccer.
The MGM Grand Hotel of Las Vegas washes 15,000 pillowcases per day!
Rickroll is the first known worm of Apple iPhone. 'Ikex' is the name of the hacker who created the worm.
The native way to say I love you in Madrid lingo is Me molas, tronca.
Santa Fe, the oldest capital city in the United States, was founded in 1610.
Fortune cookies were actually invented in America, in 1918, by Charles Jung.
The highest temperature on Earth was 136\u00b0F (58\u00b0C) in Libya in 1922.
Some calculators can spell out ''GO2HELL'' after typing in 1134206, then looking at it upside down.
Apple seeds are poisonous!
In India, Pajamas are accepted as standard daytime wearing apparel.
Since the end of WWII, Italy has seen almost 60 governments come and go.
Strawberries have more vitamin C than oranges.
Brad Pitt has been smoking since the sixth grade!
Whales die if their echo system fails.
Little Jackie Paper was the name of Puff the Magic Dragon's human friend.
The first sailing boats were built in Egypt.
In Negril, Jamaica buildings are not allowed to be built higher than the palm trees.
The 1st US zoo was built in Philadelphia, PA, in 1876.
Rodent's teeth never stop growing
Duff is the decaying organic matter found on a forest floor.
If you plant an apple seed, it is almost guaranteed to grow a tree of a different type of apple.
Statue of Liberty: At the feet of the Statue lie broken shackles of oppression and tyranny.
The average life span of a hermit crab is 75 years!
In Britain, failed suicides were hanged in the 19th century.
If your mouth was completely dry, you would not be able to distinguish the taste of anything.
Each year Georgia serves as a host to the International Poultry Trade Show, the largest poultry convention in the world.
A Chickens lifespan can be 15 years.
Calculating DNA length for each person, it would stretch across the diameter of the solar system.
When a male skier falls down, he tends to fall on his face. A woman skier tends to fall on her back.
The sheaf of wheat, ear of corn, and the ox on the state seal symbolize the farming activities of early Delaware.
The native way to say I love you in Zazi (Kurdic dialect) is Ezhele hezdege.
The total combined weight of the worlds ant population is heavier than the weight of the human population.
Wal-Mart Stores bought $18 billion of goods from China in 2004 making it China's eighth-largest trading partner (ahead of Australia, Canada and Russia).
Italy's current constitution took effect on Janury 1, 1948.
According to the Higher Education Research Institute, about 8 in 10 college freshman in the US say they believe in God.
'Second Street' is the most common street name in the U.S.; 'First Street' is the sixth!
Jamestown was the first English settlement in the U.S. It was also the first capital of Virginia.
To escape the grip of a crocodile's jaws, push your thumbs into its eyeballs - it will let you go instantly.
There are 92 known cases of nuclear bombs lost at sea.
Despite the hump, a camel's spine is straight.
The largest McDonald's is in Beijing, China - measuring 28,000 square feet. It has twenty nine cash registers.
A Boeing 707 uses four thousand gallons of fuel in its take-off climb.
Julia Roberts lies on her back to have her make-up applied before going onto a film set. She insists it gives her a relaxed look.
The Klamath Mountains in southwestern Oregon are composed of volcanic rocks, which originally erupted under the ocean.
Italians live very long, the percentage of the retired population is 20% which is a cause for concern as there aren't enough young people to work and contribute to the state pension.
Most men have erections every hour to hour and a half during sleep.
Birthstones go way back in history and was believed by some people to bring luck and healing powers to the person wearing it.
Vanilla is the extract of fermented and dried pods of several species of orchids.
Lions are the only truly social cat species, and usually every female in a pride, ranging from 5 to 30 individuals, is closely related.
The singer Grace Jones was born in Jamaica on May 19th 1952.
Up to 25% of hospital keyboards carry the MRSA infection.
Fathers tend to determine the height of their child, mothers their weight.
Indiana has a city named Santa Claus.
The native way to say I love you in catalonian is t'estim molt(I love you a lot).
John Lennon's first girlfriend was named Thelma Pickles.
Ninety percent of New York City cabbies are recently arrived immigrants.
Italians on average eat around 30 kg (66 pounds) of pasta and drink 60 liters of wine per year .
Skepticisms is the longest word that alternates hands when typing.
If you bring a raccoon's head to the Henniker, New Hampshire town hall, you are entitled to receive $.10 from the town.
San Jose was the original capital of California.
Gaetano Albert 'Guy' Lombardo did the first New Year's Eve broadcast of 'Auld Lang Syne,' from the Roosevelt Grill in New York City in 1929/1930.
Russians generally answer the phone by saying, 'I'm listening'.
60% of all US potato products originate in Idaho.
A baboon called Jackie became a private in the South African army in World War I.
All babies are color blind when they are born.
Gwen Stefani admits that she's had only two boyfriends in her life: No Doubt band mate Tony Kanal and husband Gavin Rossdale.
45% believe in ghosts.
Wipes up sawdust from drilling or sandpapering. A used sheet of Bounce will collect sawdust like a tack cloth.
The male platypus has poisonous spurs on its legs.
The Sand Hills in central and north central Nebraska consist of grass-covered sand dunes and cover one-quarter of the state.
George Washington spent about 7% of his annual salary on liquor.
It takes 70% less energy to produce a ton of paper from recycled paper than from trees.
Forest fires move faster uphill than downhill.
A B-25 bomber airplane crashed into the 79th floor of the Empire State Building on July 28, 1945.
An eagle can kill a young deer and fly away with it.
Only male fireflies can fly.
If you part your hair on the right side, you were born to be carnivorous. If you part it on the left, your physical and psychological make-up is that of a vegetarian.
The New Haven District Telephone Company published the first telephone book ever issued on February 1878, in New Haven.
Golf the only sport played on the Moon - on 6 February 1971 Alan Shepard hit a golf ball.
Humans take about 23000 breaths every day.
The Union ironclad, Monitor, was the first U.S. ship to have a flush toilet.
Trueman Capote the man who wrote Breakfast at Tiffany's had the middle name of Stucklefuss!
The two-foot long bird called a Kea that lives in New Zealand likes to eat the strips of rubber around car windows.
Even Antarctica has an area code. It's 672.
The Mills Brothers have recorded the most songs of any artist: about 2,250.
Broadway actress Helen Hayes made her screen debut in The Sin of Madelon Claudet in 1931 and won the Best Actress Academy Award for her first talkie.
An electric oven uses one kilowatt-hour of electricity in about 20 minutes, but one kilowatt-hour will power a TV for 3 hours, run a 100-watt bulb for 12 hours, and keep an electric clock ticking for 3 months.
The Great Comet in 1843 had a tail that was over 300 kilometres long.
Edison Built His First Lab at the Age of 10.
In Chinese tradition, the yin, or right side, lives in harmony with the left side, the yang. Neither side dominates the other.
Pocahontas appeared on the back of the $20 bill in 1875.
The most powerful electric eel is found in the rivers of Brazil, Columbia, Venezuela, and Peru, and produces a shock of 400-650 volts.
According to a recent survey, more Americans lose their virginity in June than any other month.
A tortoise can live up to 140 years old.
The mouse is the most common mammal in the US.
Mexico and Iceland have the highest per capita consumption of Coca-Cola.
Americans are making roughly three times more trips to casinos than trips to ballparks.
Electrical stimulation of certain areas of the brain has been proven to revive long-lost memories.
A chef's hat is shaped the way it is for a reason: its shape allows air to circulate around the scalp, keeping the head cool in a hot kitchen.
90% of New York City cab drivers are recently arrived immigrants.
The first 3-Wheeler accident took place in 1769.
Tourism is the world's biggest industry, affecting 240 million jobs.
20% of the world's population lives in China.
Of all things, Andrew Jackson's tombstone does not mention that he served as the president of the United States!
Walter Huston and his son John become the first father-and-son team to win Oscars as director of and an actor in 'Treasure of Sierra Madre' in 1949.
In Kentucky, it is illegal to carry ice-cream in your back pocket.
On december 18th 1969, Britain abolished death penalty.
Owls are the only birds who can see the color blue.
In studies, 45% of toads tended to have a preference for their left forelimbs.
Minnesota claims homeland to the following inventions: Masking and Scotch tape, Wheaties, Bisquick, Aveda beauty products, the Bundt pan, HMOs, Green Giant vegetables, and the Snickers candy bar.
Oprah Winfrey and Elvis Presley are distant cousins.
Kangaroo rats never drink water. Like their relatives the pocket mice, they carry their own water source within them, producing fluids from the food they eat and the air the breathe.
It took 10 years to build the Panama Canal.
Just one cow gives off enough harmful methane gas in a single day to fill around 400 liter bottles.
Ants are social insects and live in colonies which may have as many as 500,000 individuals.
The most sensitive cluster of nerves is at the base of the spine.
DVD discs are the same diameter (120mm) and thickness (1.2mm) as a Compact Disc but a DVD can store 13 times or more data.
There is a 1 in 4 chance that New York will have a white Christmas.
In 21 states, Wal-Mart is the single largest employer.
It is Colorado Day on August 3rd (since 1876) (on a Monday)
If you have three quarters, four dimes and four cents, you have $1.19. But you cannot make exact change for a dollar.
Carnegie Hall in New York City opened in 1891 with Tchaikovsky as guest conductor.
In 1975, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid in the US consumed 25% of all federal spending. Today, the three account to 43%.
Many theologians estimate that Jesus wasn't born on December 25 but sometime in September between 6BC and 30AD.
On February 8th 1587 Mary, Queen of Scots were beheaded.
Blood accounts for 7% of the human body weight.
The Grateful Dead were once called 'The Warlocks'.
A typical flash of folk lightning lasts for about 0.2 seconds.
Annual global spending on education is $1.1 trillion. Annual global spending on military is $1.3 trillion (45% by USA).
The smell of peppermint improves concentration.
Cher's last name was 'Sarkissian.' She changed it because no one could pronounce it.
Hundreds of billions of neurons carry electrical signals that control the body from the brain and the spinal cord.
Over 80% of professional boxers have suffered brain damage.
Einstein didn't get along with his oldest son.
Paris in France has a vineyard.
The people in Bali only have one of four names, Wayan, Made, Nyoman, and Ketut? If they got a fifth child it starts all over again with Wayan.
Washington State has the longest single beach in the United States.Long Beach, WA.
Harry S Truman's middle name was S. Just S, without the period.
Vatican City is the smallest country in the world, with a population of 1000 and just 108.7 acres.
Smearing a small amount of dog feces on an insect bite will relieve the itching and swelling.
Because of Animal Crackers, many kids until they reach the age of ten, believe a bear is as tall as a giraffe.
A newborn's skull contains gaps between its bony plates. In an adult, the jagged plates interlock tightly like a jigsaw puzzle.
Goethe couldn't stand the sound of barking dogs and could only write if he had an apple rotting in the drawer of his desk.
Identical twins do not have identical fingerprints.
The mortality rate if bitten by a Black Mamba snake is over 95%.
The Bible, the world's best-selling book, is also the world's most shoplifted book.
The longest underground river in the world is St. Paul's underground river in Palawan, Philippines.
Chimps are the only animals that can recognize themselves in a mirror.
Reptiles evolved about 120 million years ago.
During his lifetime, artist Vincent Van Gogh only sold one of his paintings.
A man named Charles Osborne had the hiccups for 69 years!
Onions have no flavor, only a smell.
NASA has awarded five-year grants, averaging $7 million each, to 10 research teams from across the country, including two from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
In an authentic Chinese meal, the last course is soup because it allows the roast duck entree to 'swim' toward digestion.
Dogs are capable of locating the source of a sound in 6/100ths of a second by using their swiveling ears like radar dishes.
Saudi diplomats have 367 outstanding parking fines in Britain.
On January 1st 1643 Isaac Newton was baptized in St. John's Church in Colsterworth England.
Medina is the home of the world's wealthiest man, Microsoft's Bill Gates.
72% of people in Mali earn less than $1 per day.
The native way to say I love you in Bicol is Namumutan ta ka.
Cuba is the only island in the Caribbean to have a railroad.
Light would take .13 seconds to travel around the Earth.
Catnip can affect lions and tigers as well as house cats. It excites them because it contains a chemical that resembles an excretion of the dominant female's urine.
Marie Antoinette's dog was a spaniel named Thisbe.
Butte County, South Dakota is the geographical center of the U.S.
If you rearrange the words 'Election results' you can spell 'Lies! Let's recount'
At McDonalds the hamburgers in Japan are the same size as in America, but the drinks are one size smaller.
Napoleon Bonaparte is the historical figure most often portrayed in movies. He has been featured in 194 movies, Jesus Christ in 152, and Abraham Lincoln in 137.
98% of Italians are Roman Catholic.
The largest pumpkin weighed 377 pounds.
Carols began as an old English custom called wassailing, toasting neighbours to a long life.
The Palace of Versailles in France, which contains the famous Hall of Mirrors, was built during the reign of Louis XIV and served as the royal palace until 1793.
In the 1800's, people believed that gin could cure stomach problems.
If you farted consistently for 6 years and 9 months, enough gas is produced to create the energy of an atomic bomb.
Zagat Survey ranked The French Room at the Adolphus the No. 1 restaurant in the U.S. (2006), as it wrote 'there aren't enough superlatives' to describe it.
In the Caribbean there are oysters that can climb trees.
Lake Pontchartrain Causeway at New Orleans, Louisiana, is the world's largest bridge. It is almost 24 miles (about 38 kilometers) long.
If you attempted to count to stars in our galaxy at a rate of one every second it would take around 3,000 years to count them all.
The native way to say I love you in Ndebele is Niyakutanda.
Human birth control pills work on gorillas.
In 32 years there are about 1 billion seconds!
A snail can sleep for three years.
There are about 2 chickens for every human in the world.
DFW Metroplex is home to 24 Fortune 500 companies.
A full-grown bear can run as fast as a horse.
Harvard University, the nation's oldest college, was chartered in Cambridge in 1636.
Alaska law says that you can't look at a moose from an airplane.
The native way to say I love you in Spanish is Te amo.
Jane Austen died in 1817 from Addison's disease.
The new 787 Boeing was revealed on 7/8/07 or July 8th, 07.
Scientists have discovered that the longer the ring finger is in boys the less chance they have of having a heart attack.
Soldiers disease is a term for morphine addiction. The Civil War produced over 400,000 morphine addicts.
Fingernails grow nearly 4 times faster than toenails!
People whose mouth has a narrow roof are more likely to snore. This is because they have less oxygen going through their nose.
About 10% of the world's population is left-handed.
Changing a cat's litter box can be dangerous to pregnant women, as cat feces sometimes carry a parasite that can cause harm to the developing baby.
People who ride on roller coasters have a higher chance of having a blood clot in the brain.
Soaking beans for twelve hours in water before they are cooked can reduce flatulence caused by beans.
Close to fifty percent of the bacteria in the mouth lives on the surface of our tongue.
The average facelift will set you back about $4156.00.
There are approximately one hundred million people in the United States that have a chronic illness.
Coughing can cause air to move through your windpipe faster than the speed of sound over a thousand feet per second!
The brain consists of 60% white matter and 40% grey matter.
The lining of the a person's stomach is replaced every 36 hours.
The human heart beats roughly 35 million times a year.
During pregnancy, the average woman's uterus expands up to five hundred times its normal size.
The stomach can break down goat's milk faster than the milk of a cow.
Pound for pound, your tongue is the strongest muscle in your body.
In America, the most common mental illness is Anxiety Disorders.
The conjunctiva is a membrane that covers the human eye.
The fastest moving muscle in the human body is the one that opens and closes the eyelid.
Humans are born with 300 bones in their body, however when a person reaches adulthood they only have 206 bones. This occurs because many of them join together to make a single bone.
The average person spends two weeks of their life kissing.
The fastest growing tissue in the human body is hair.
Every day the human stomach produces about 2 liters of hydrochloric acid.
A Russian man who wore a beard during the time of Peter the Great had to pay a special tax.
The average weight of a newborn baby is 7 lbs. 6 oz. For a triplet baby it is 3 lbs. 12 oz.
Research has indicated that approximately eleven minutes are cut off the life of an average male smoker from each cigarette smoked.
The human heart weighs less than a pound.
The average person laughs about 15 times a day.
One out of 20 people have an extra rib.
In the United States, 8.5 million cosmetic surgical and non-surgical procedures were done in the year 2001.
It wasn't until 1543 that it was proven that a human heart was not the same as an apes and that a man did not have one more rib than a woman. Anatomy at this time was considered heresey.
The big toe is the foot reflexology pressure point for the head.
The first open heart surgery was performed by Dr. Daniel Hall Williams in 1893.
The sensitivity of a woman's middle finger is reduced during menstruation.
People use 200 muscles when they walk.
Women hearts beat faster than men.
Inside our eye, at the back, is a part called the 'retina.' On the retina are cells called 'rods' and 'cones.' These rods and cones help us to see colors and light.
Your heart beats over 100,000 times a day.
Like finger prints, everyone's tongue print is different!
On average redheads have 90,000 hairs. People with black hair have about 110,000 hairs.
Sailors once thought that wearing a gold earring would improve their eyesight.
The incidents of immune system diseases has increased over 200% in the last five years.
Human thigh bones are stronger than concrete.
Nerve impulses for muscle position travel at a speed of up to 390 feet per second.
Eighty percent of 10 year old girls in the USA go on a diet.
About twenty-five percent of the population sneeze when they are exposed to light.
The chances of getting a cavity is higher if candy is eaten slowly throughout the day compared to eating it all at once and then brushing your teeth.
Men in their early twenties shave an average of four times a week.
Men are able to read fine print better than women can.
Every day, the average person swallows about a quart of snot.
Chances of a women getting breast cancer are increased by excessive use of alcohol.
Studies indicate that epileptic patients that listen to Mozart's Piano Sonata can dramatically decrease their chance of a seizure.
A ear trumpet was used before the hearing aid was invented by people who had difficulty hearing.
The average human has about 10,000 taste buds.
On average, a hair strand's life span is five and a half years.
Approximately 25% of all scald burns to children are from hot tap water and is associated with more deaths than with any other liquid.
The pectin that is found in apples aids in lowering cholesterol levels.
At one time it was thought that the heart controlled a person's emotions.
It takes about three hours for food to be broken down in the human stomach.
While sleeping, one man in eight snores, and one in ten grinds his teeth.
Every three days a human stomach gets a new lining.
The first owner of the Marlboro Company, Wayne McLaren, died of lung cancer.
Every eleven minutes in the U.S., a woman dies of breast cancer.
In 1832, in Paisley, Scotland the first municipal water filtration works was opened.
The world record for the number of body piercing on one individual is 702, which is held by Canadian Brent Moffat.
In one day, a human sheds 10 billion skin flakes. This amounts to approximately two kilograms in a year.
The reason why some people get a cowlick is because the growth of their hair is in a spiral pattern, which causes the hair to either stand straight up, or goes to a certain angle.
Scientists have determined that having guilty feelings may actually damage your immune system
Each year in America there are about 300,000 deaths that can be attributed to obesity.
It takes more muscles to frown than it does to smile.
The first hair dryer was a vacuum cleaner that was used for drying hair.
Fourteen people die each day from asthma in the United States.
There are 54 bones in your hands including the wrists.
All babies are colour blind when they are born.
Although the outsides of a bone are hard, they are generally light and soft inside. They are about 75% water.
Mummy powder was once thought to be a cure for all remedies. English men used to carry the powder with them in a tiny bag wherever they went.
In the United States, poisoning is the fourth leading cause of death among children.
An average women has 17 square feet of skin. When a women is in her ninth month of pregnancy she has 18.5 square feet of skin.
Many cancer patients that are treated with chemotherapy lose their hair. For some when the hair grows back, it can grow back a different colour, or be curly or straight.
A headache and inflammatory pain can be reduced by eating 20 tart cherries.
On average, one heartbeat pumps five tablespoons of blood.
The human face is made up of 14 bones.
On average a person passes gas 14 times a day.
Flu shots only work about 70% of the time.
On average, Americans spend 33% of their life sleeping.
Some brands of toothpaste contain glycerin or glycerol, which is also an ingredient in antifreeze.
The reason why your nose gets runny when you are crying is because the tears from the eyes drain into the nose.
The study of the iris of the eye is called iridology.
Influenza caused over twenty-one million deaths in 1918.
The average human dream lasts only 2 to 3 seconds.
A popular superstition is that if you put a piece of bread in a baby's crib, it will keep away diseases.
Everyday approximately 35 meters of hair fiber is produced on the scalp of an adult.
In ancient Egypt, doctors used jolts from the electric catfish to reduce the pain of arthritis.
Your feet may be as much as 5 to 10 percent larger at the end of the day.
A person afflicted with hexadectylism has six fingers or six toes on one or both hands and feet.
The majority of American models are skinnier than 98% of American women.
Women are twice as likely to be diagnosed with depression than men.
If an identical twin grows up without having a certain tooth, the other twin will most likely also grow up with that tooth missing.
Teenage cosmetic surgeries nearly doubled in the USA between 1996 and 1998.
Medical reports show that about 18% of the population are prone to sleepwalking.
Over the front of our eye is a clear covering called the 'conjunctiva.'
From all the oxygen that a human breathes, twenty percent goes to the brain.
During a typical human life span, the human heart will beat approximately 2.5 billion times.
Ancient Egyptians used to think having facial hair was an indication of personal neglect.
People with darker skin will not wrinkle as fast as people with lighter skin.
The kidneys filter over 400 gallons of blood each day.
Over 600,000 people died as a result of the Spanish influenza epidemic.
The average human scalp has 100,000 hairs.
The only bone fully grown at birth is located in the ear.
The human heart can create enough pressure that it could squirt blood at a distance of thirty feet.
Your body has over 40 miles of nerves.
Lack of sleep can affect your immune system and reduce your ability to fight infections.
The longest hiccups on record was by an American pig farmer whose hiccups persisted from 1922 to 1987.
People with allergies can lower allergy reactions by laughing.
It has been medically been proven that laughter is an effective pain killer.
Eating chocolate three times a month helps people live longer as opposed to people who overeat chocolate or do not eat chocolate at all.
Seven percent of a humans body weight is made up of blood.
41% of women apply body or hand moisturizer a minimum three times a day.
85% of the population can curl their tongue into a tube.
Bile produced by the liver is responsible for making your feces a brownish, green colour.
The longest human beard on record is 17.5 feet, held by Hans N. Langseth who was born in Norway in 1846.
May babies are on avearge 200 grams heavier than babies born in other months.
The human liver performs over 500 functions.
The stomach of an adult can hold 1.5 liters of material.
HIV, the virus which causes AIDS, can survive and remain infectious for up to four days in the lubricants of certain medical and dental devices.
The slowest growing finger nail is on the thumb nail and the fastest growing is the finger nail on the middle finger.
The small intestine in the human body is about 2 inches around, and 22 feet long.
If the lens in our eye doesn't work quite right, we can get glasses to help us see. Glasses have lenses in them that work with our eye's own lens to help us see better.
If you unfolded your brain, it would cover an ironing board.
On average, a man spends about five months of his life shaving.
A human eyeball weighs an ounce.
Children grow faster in the springtime than any other season during the year.
Carbon monoxide can kill a person in less than 15 minutes.
A study indicates that smokers are likely to die on average six and a half years earlier than non-smokers.
The Gastric Flu can cause projectile vomiting.
The longer white infants from low-income families are breast-fed, the less likely they will be overweight as young children, researchers said on Monday.
By donating just one pint of blood, four lives can be saved.
Laugh and you'll burn up three and a half calories, no joke.
Girls have more tastebud than boys.
The digestive track in a persons body is about 30 feet long.
For humans the normal pulse is 70 heartbeats per minute.
Manicuring the nails has been done by people for more than 4,000 years.
The human body has approximately 37,000 miles of capillaries.
Asthma affects one in fifteen children under the age of eighteen.
Babies start dreaming even before they are born.
The oldest known disease in the world is leprosy.
A woman from Berlin Germany has had 3,110 gallstones taken out of her gall bladder.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever is a disease caused by ticks.
In one day your heart beats 100,000 times.
An adult has 206 bones, and a newborn has 300.
The Dutch people are known to be the tallest people in Europe.
On average, falling asleep while driving results in 550 accidents per day in the United States.
The DNA of humans is closer to a rat than a cat.
Every square inch of the human body has about 19,000,000 skin cells.
In the early nineteenth century some advertisements claimed that riding the carousel was good for the circulation of blood.
If you could harness the power used by your brain, you could power a 10-Watt light bulb
A survey done by Clairol 10 years ago came up with 46% of men stating that it was okay to color their hair. Now 66% of men admit to coloring their hair.
Some people start to sneeze if they are exposed to sunlight or have a light shined into their eye.
The space between your eyebrows is called the Glabella.
Every three minutes a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer.
Humans have about the same number of hair follicles as a chimpanzee has.
The eight most popular foods to cause food allergies are: milk, eggs, wheat, peanuts, soy, tree nuts, fish, and shellfish.
The first known contraceptive was crocodile dung, used by Egyptians in 2000 B.C.
Two million red blood cells die every second.
The average person has at least seven dreams a night.
One ragweed plant can release as many as a million grains of pollen in one day.
A sneeze leaves your body at 40 miles per hour.
Fat is important for the development of children and normal growth.
In a year, there are 60,000 trampoline injuries that occur in the U.S.
The adult human body requires about 88 pounds of oxygen daily.
Nearly half of all Americans suffer from symptoms of burnout.In humans, the epidermal layer of skin, which consists of many layers of skin regenerates every 27 days.
In a lifetime, an average human produces 10,000 gallons of saliva.
The average ear grows 0.01 inches in length every year.
Children who are breast fed tend to have an IQ seven points higher than children who are not.
The eye of a human can distinguish 500 shades of the gray.
Lady Peseshet is known to be the world's first known female physician. She practiced during the time of the pyramids, which was the fourth dynasty.
Constipation is caused when too much water is absorbed in the large intestine and poops become dry.
Only one out of every three people wash their hands when leaving a public bathroom.
Diabetes is the fourth leading cause of death in the U.S., accounting for about 180,000 deaths per year.
Scientists say that babies that are breastfed are more likely to be slimmer as adults than those that are not breastfed.
It is very common for babies in New Zealand to sleep on sheepskins. This is to help them gain weight faster, and retain their body heat.
The brain represents about 2% of your total body weight. It is roughly 140mm wide, 167mm long and 93mm high
Your ribs move about 5 million times a year, every time you breathe!
The most common injury caused by cosmetics is to the eye by a mascara wand.
Every day, over 1,300 babies are born prematurely in the USA.
It takes food seven seconds to go from the mouth to the stomach via the esophagus.
The length of a human esophagus is 25 centimeters.
A man named Charles Osborne had the hiccups for approximately sixty-nine years.
The DNA helix measures 80 billionths of an inch wide.
The average human brain weighs three pounds.
The strongest bone in your body is the femur (thighbone), and it's hollow!
Gases that build up in your large intestine cause flatulence. It usually takes about 30 to 45 minutes for these gases to pass through your system.
Most dust particles in your house are made from dead skin!
Our eyes have many parts. The black part on the front of our eye is called the 'pupil.' It is really a little hole that opens into the back part of our eyes.
Most heart attacks occur between the hours of 8 and 9 AM.
The cornea is the only living tissue in the human body that does not contain any blood vessels.
An eyelash lives about 5 months.
The human body makes anywhere from 1 to 3 pints of saliva every 24 hours.
Humans breathe in and out approximately one litre of air in ten seconds.
Studies indicate that weightlifters working out in blue gyms can handle heavier weights.
Every day 2,700 people die of heart disease.
There are 10 million bacteria at the place where you rest your hands at a desk.
Every hour one billion cells in the body must be replaced.
You blink over 10,000,000 times a year.
The average human head weighs about eight pounds.
Hair is made from the same substance as fingernails.
The width of your armspan stretched out is the length of your whole body.
1 in 2000 babies are born with a tooth that is already visible.
It is not possible to tickle yourself. The cerebellum, a part of the brain, warns the rest of the brain that you are about to tickle yourself. Since your brain knows this, it ignores the resulting sensation.
Your nose and ears never stop growing.
On average, a person has two million sweat glands.
All of your 'thinking' is done by electricity and chemicals
There are approximately 60 muscles in the face.
The loss of eyelashes is referred to as madarosis.
Your brain is more active and thinks more at night than during the day.
Babies' eyes do not produce tears until the baby is approximately six to eight weeks old.
The feet have approximately 250,000 sweat glands.
On average 1,668 gallons of water are used by each person in the United States daily.
Studies have shown that the scent of Rosemary can help in better mental performance and make individuals feel more alert.
In a month, a fingernail grows an eighth of an inch.
The smile is the most frequently used facial expression. A smile can use anywhere from a pair of 5 to 53 facial muscles.
The shark cornea has been used in eye surgery, since its cornea is similar to a human cornea.
The average person falls asleep in about 12 to 14 minutes.
Enamel is the hardest substance in the human body.
Just behind the pupil is a lens. It is round and flat. It is thicker toward the middle.
One average, men spend 60 hours a year shaving.
People that smoke have 10 times as many wrinkles as a person that does not smoke.
By the time you are 70 you will have easily drunk over 12,000 gallons of water.
The most frequent season for most suicides to occur is in the spring. The winter months have the lowest number of suicides.
People who meet their calcium need reduce their risk of developing kidney stones.
In the United States, approximately 25,000 eye injuries occur that result in the person becoming totally blind.
Three years after a person quits smoking, their chance of having a heart attack is the same as someone who has never smoked before.
Next to bone marrow, hair is the fastest growing tissue in the human body.
When a women is pregnant, her senses are all heightened.
Your tongue has 3,000 taste buds.
The aorta, which is largest artery located in the body, is about the diameter of a garden hose.
A yawn usually lasts for approximately six seconds.
Eyebrow hair lasts between 3-5 months before it sheds.
3000 children die every day in Africa because of malaria.
The early occurrence of a fetus yawning is at eleven weeks after conception.
The number one cause of rabies in the United States are bats.
The eyeball of a human weighs approximately 28 grams.
There are approximately 100,000 miles of blood vessels in the human body.
Ironically, when doctors in Los Angeles, California went on strike in 1976, the daily number of deaths in the city dropped 18%.
Over 40 million Americans have chronic bad breath.
There are 400 species of bacteria in the human colon.
People still cut the cheese shortly after death.
The flu pandemic of 1918 killed over 20 million people.
A person infected with the SARS virus, has a 95-98% chance of recovery.
Over 436,000 U.S. Troops were exposed to depleted uranium during the first Gulf war.
Every three days, you body makes a new lining for your stomach.
Studies show that couples that smoke during the time of conception have a higher chance of having a girl compared to couples that do not smoke.Your eyeballs are three and a half percent salt.
Some people drink the urine of pregnant women to build up their immune system.
Pain signals travel along hour nerves at 50 feet per second.
The right lung of a human is larger than the left one. This is because of the space and placement of the heart.
The human brain is 80% water.
Your thigh bone is stronger than concrete.
A pregnant woman's dental health can affect her unborn child.
Human teeth are almost as hard as rocks.
One quarter of the bones in your body, are in your feet!
A person that is struck by lightning has a greater chance of developing motor neurons disease.
Half your body's red blood cells are replaced every seven days.
The purpose of tonsils is to destroy foreign substances that are swallowed or breathed in.
The reason why hair turns gray as we age is because the pigment cells in the hair follicle start to die, which is responsible for producing 'melanin' which gives the hair colour.
People of Ancient China believed that swinging your arms could cure a headache.
People generally read 25% slower from a computer screen compared to paper.
In a lifetime, an average driver will release approximately 912 pints of wind inside a car.
The same amount of calories are burned by doing 6 sessions that are 5 minutes each of an activity and doing 1 session of that activity for 30 minutes.
The average life span of a single red blood cell is 120 days.
Your blood takes a very long trip through your body. If you could stretch out all of a human's blood vessels, they would be about 60,000 miles long. That's enough to go around the world twice.
Due to eating habits in the USA, one in three children born in the year 2000 have a chance of getting type II diabetes.
The highest recorded speed of a sneeze is 165 km per hour.
Even if you eat food standing on your head, the food will still end up in your stomach.
Hair will fall out faster on a person that is on a crash diet.
Native Americans used to use pumpkin seeds for medicine.
On average, 90% of the people that have the disease Lupus are female.
Left-handed people are better at sports that require good spatial judgment and fast reaction, compared to right-handed individuals.
There are 50% more males that are left handed compared to females.
Nerve cells can travel as fast as 120 meters per second.
Olive oil can help in lowering cholesterol levels and decreasing the risk of heart complications.
The smoke that is produced by a fire kills more people than a burn does because of carbon monoxide and other dangerous gases.
The world's first test tube twins are Stephen and Amanda Mays born June 5, 1981.
Adult human bones account for 14% of the body's total weight.
The vocabulary of the average person consists of 5,000 to 6,000 words.
Once a human reaches the age of 35, he/she will start losing approximately 7,000 brain cells a day. The cells will never be replaced.
A woman has approximately 4.5 liters of blood in her body, while men have 5.6 liters.
Forty-one percent of women apply body and hand moisturizer at least three times a day.
In Canada, men are three times more likely than women to have seen a doctor in the last year.
In 1967, the first successful heart transplant was performed in Cape Town, South Africa.
A person who smokes a pack of cigarettes a day will on average lose two teeth every ten years.
The risk of cardiovascular disease is twice as high in women that snore regularly compared to women who do not snore.
Gardening is said to be one of the best exercises for maintaining healthy bones.
The Christmas holidays are the busiest time in plastic surgeons offices.
Your eyes blinks over 10,000,000 times a year!
A lifespan of an eyelash is approximately 150 days.
Teenage suicide is the second cause of death in the state of Wisconsin.
From the age of thirty, humans gradually begin to shrink in size.
Theres more sweat glands on your feet than any other part of your body. An average pair of feet will sweat a pint of perspiration a day.
In a lifetime, an average man will shave 20,000 times.
Brylcreem, which was created in 1929, was the first man's hair product.
The liver performs more than 500 different functions, including storing vitamins and removing harmful chemicals from the blood.
The smallest bone in the human body is the stapes bone which is located in the ear.
Studies indicate that listening to music is good for digestion.
The number one cause of blindness in adults in the United States is diabetes.
In a lifetime, the heart pumps about one million barrels of blood.
There are more bacteria in your mouth than there are people in the world.
Each day 400 gallons of recycled blood are pumped through the kidneys.
Around the pupil is a colored muscle called the 'iris.' Our eyes may be BLUE, BROWN, GREEN, GRAY OR BLACK, because that is the color of the iris.
It is impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
Research has indicated that a tie that is on too tight cam increase the risk of glaucoma in men.
Medical research has found substances in mistletoe that can slow down tumor growth.
Every year in the U.S., there are 178,000 new cases of lung cancer.
The average person walks the equivalent of twice around the world in a lifetime.
Over 90% of diseases are caused or complicated by stress.
Blood is such a good stain that Native Americans used it for paint.
People have the tendency to chew the food on the side that they most often use their hand.
People that suffer from gum disease are twice as likely to have a stroke or heart attack.
The white part of our eye is called the 'sclera.' At the front, the sclera becomes clear and is called the 'cornea.'
The human brain has about 100,000,000,000 (100 billion) neurons.
Air is passed through the nose at a speed of 100 miles per hour when a person sneezes.
Your brain is about 75-80% water.
People over the age of fifty will start to lose their dislike for foods that taste bitter.
Hair and fingernails are made from the same substance, keratin.
When you blush, your stomach lining also reddens.
Both George Washington and Thomas Jefferson grew cannabis sativa (marijuana) on their plantations.
Each year industrial, household cleaning, gardening, and automotive products are added as water pollutants. About 65,000 chemicals are used commercially in the United States today, with about 1,000 new ones added each year. Only about 300 have been extensively tested for toxicity.
The Nile River in Africa is the longest river (6,825 kilometers) of the earth.
An apple tree is at its prime when it is about 50 years old. The United States produces about 100 million barrels of apples a year. That's a lot of old trees.
The Persian Gulf is the warmest sea. In the summer its temperature reaches 35.6 degrees centigrade.
The brain uses more than 25% of the oxygen used by the human body.
Louisiana loses about 30 square miles (78 square kilometers) of land each year to coastal erosion, hurricanes, other natural and human causes and a thing called subsidence, which means sinking.
American Roy Sullivan has been struck by lighting a record seven times.
An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain.
The longest living cells in the body are brain cells which can live an entire lifetime.
Trees improve water quality by slowing and filtering rain water, as well as protecting aquifers and watersheds.
Asparagus is a member of the lily family, which also includes onions, leeks, and garlic,  but asparagus has a unique mild flavor, nothing like the flavor of its onion cousins.
Onions contain a mild antibiotic that fights infections, soothes burns, tames bee stings and relieves the itch of athletes foot.
The shark has to keep moving to stay alive.
Belcher's sea snakeThe most poisonous snake in the world is Belcher's Sea Snake or the Faint-banded Sea Snake (Hydrophis belcheri).
While only 2% in weight, the human brain requires 15% of the body's heart work, 20% of oxygen and 25% of all glucose.
For each minute of the day, 1 billion tons of rain falls on the Earth.
Grapes and clematis have stems that climb with tendrils, which hold onto a surface, as the stems get longer.
The world's smallest flowering plant is the Wolffia, whose one full bouquet of flowers can fit on the head of a push-pin.
Scientists turn up as many as 10,000 new species of insects every year.
Animals may perish when the oil slicks their fur or downy feathers, decreasing the surface area so they are no longer insulated from the cold water. Or the animals may ingest the oil, then become sick or unable to reproduce properly.
The world's termites outweigh the world's humans 10 to 1.
Morphine was given its name in 1803 by the discoverer, a 20 year old German pharmacist named Friedrich Saturner. He named it after Morpheus, the Greek god of dreams.
According to the United States Department of Agriculture, the best time to spray household insects is 4:00 p.m. Insects are most vulnerable at this time.
One pound of tea can make 300 cups of the beverage.
If two flies were left to reproduce without predators or other limitations for one year, the resulting mass of flies would be the size of the Earth.
Snakes are true carnivorous because they eat nothing but other animals. They do not eat any type of plant material.
A notch in a tree will remain the same distance from the ground as the tree grows.
The common goldfish is the only animal that can see both infra-red and ultra-violet light.
Dolphins cannot stay long underwater because they breathe through their blowholes above water. S
Other vegetables high in carotenoids are carrots, spinach, sweet potatoes, and collard greens.
Laika (dog) became the world's first space traveler. Russian scientists sent the small animal aloft in an artificial earth satellite in 1957.
Americans eat about 125 pounds of potatoes a year, about half from fresh potatoes and half in processed foods.
One-tenth of the Earth's surface is always under the cover of ice. And almost 90 per cent of that ice is to be found in the continent of Antarctica.
Oils from the orange roughy, Hoplostethus atlanticus, a deep-sea fish from New Zealand, are used in making shampoo.
Scientists estimate that more than three-quarters of Earth's surface is of volcanic origin, that is, rocks either erupted by volcanoes or molten rock.
Wolves in the Arctic have to travel much longer distances than wolves in the forest to find food and will sometimes go for several days without eating.
The giraffe is one of the quietest animals: it has no vocal chords to make any noise.
Crocodiles swallow stones to help them dive deeper.
Quinine, one of the most important drugs known to man, is obtained from the dried bark of an evergreen tree native to South America.
Eighty-five percent of all the plants and animals live in the sea.
Bracts are modified leaves, which are located at the base of a flower. Bracts are usually smaller than the leaves on the stem. Poinsettia and bougainvillea plants have bracts.
An average ear of corn has 800 kernels, arranged in 16 rows.
Soy crayons have been created to replace toxic petroleum-waxCrayon.GIF (2629 bytes) crayons, soy crayons are safer to use, brighter in color, and less expensive to produce.
At any given time, on average there are about 1800 thunderstorms occurring on earth with 100 lightning strikes per second.
The Golden 'Poison Dart' frog in South America is most poisonous vertebrate in the world.
Rainforests are threatened by unsustainable agricultural, ranching, mining and logging practices.
In 1932 James Markham obtained the 1st patent issued for a tree. The patent was for a peach tree.
Earth is referred to as the BLUE PLANET. Because from space, the oceans combined with our atmosphere make our planet look blue.
Angel Falls in Venezuela is the worlds highest waterfall, The water of Falls drops 3,212 feet (979 meters).
The world's deadliest recorded earthquake occurred in 1557 in central China, more than 830,000 people were killed.
The Skylab astronauts grew 1.5 - 2.25 inches (3.8 - 5.7 centimeters) due to spinal lengthening and straightening as a result of zero gravity.
Some tissue-making machines can produce as many as 6000 feet of toilet tissuetree01.gif (1395 bytes) every minute out of trees.
The Pacific Ocean has an average depth of 2.4 miles (3.9 kilometers).
Total fertility rate of the world is 2.59 children born/woman. Niger is 7.46 (highest), India is 2.73, US is 2.09 & Hong Kong is 0.95 only (Lowest).
Tree roots stabilize the soil and prevent erosion.
On an average, most people blink about 15,000 times in a 16-hour day (awake.)
Rainforests can be found all over the world from as far north as Alaska and Canada to Latin America, Asia and Africa.
The 236 ft or 72 m high Ada Tree of Australia has a 50 ft or 15.4 m girth and a root system that takes up more than an acre.
The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
Spiders have transparent blood.
The smallest bone in the human body is the stapes or stirrup bone located in the middle ear. It is approximately .11 inches (.28 cm) long.
The remains of diatoms, algae with hard shells, are used in making pet litter, cosmetics, pool filters and tooth polish.
White potatoes were first cultivated by local Indians in the Andes Mountains of South America.
Armadillos spend about 80% of their lives asleep.
Hydrothermal vents, fractures in the sea floor that spew sulphur compounds, support the only complex ecosystem known to run on chemicals, rather than energy from the sun.
The primary root is the first thing to sprout from a seed, and it grows downward.
Snowflakes falling at 2-4 mph can take about 1 hr to reach the ground.
Horseshoe crabs have existed in essentially the same form for the past 135 million years. Their blood provides a valuable test for the toxins that cause septic shock, which previously led to half of all hospital-acquired infections and one-fifth of all hospital deaths.
The black widow spider can devour as many as twenty 'mates' in a single day.
The average width of a tornado's funnel averages about 100 to 200 yards but may be as wide as a mile.
Lake Baikal is about 20 million years old and contains 20 percent of Earth's fresh liquid water.
The human body has less muscles in it than a caterpillar.
An elephant can use its tusks to dig for ground water. An adult elephant needs to drink around 210 litres of water a day.
Earth's ocean is made up of more than 20 seas and four oceans: Atlantic, Indian, Arctic, and Pacific, the oldest and the largest.
One ragweed plant can release as many as one billion grains of pollen.
Frogs eat their skin after they shed it.
The fragrance of flowers is due to the essences of oil which they produce.
Your blood vessels, if laid end to end, would encircle the globe twice over.
The heart of giraffe is two feet long, and can weigh as much as twenty four pounds.
Chile (Africa) is the driest place on Earth, gets just 0.03 inches (0.76 millimeters) of rain per year.
The total surface area of the Earth is 197 million square miles.
The world's smallest rodent is Pygmy Jerboa - measuring only a couple of inches in length - and can run as fast as a horse.
Female mosquitos will obtain blood from humans and animals, but only to nourish their eggs. Their food actually consists of nectar and other plant juices.
An African bugleweed synthesises in its tissues a substance similar to the hormone that controls the development of caterpillars. If a caterpillar is persuaded, experimentally, to ingest that substance, then when it turns into a butterfly it will develop two heads and die.
There is no land at all at the North Pole, only ice on top of sea. The Arctic Ocean has about 12 million sq km of floating ice and has the coldest winter temperature of -34 degrees centigrade.
The pineapple was symbol of welcome in the 1700-1800's. That is why in New England you will see so many pineapples on door knockers. An arch in Providence RI leading into the Federal Hill neighborhood has a pineapple on it for that very reason. Pineapples were brought home by seafarers as gifts.
Lobsters have blue blood.
Some of the oldest mountains in the world are the Highlands in Scotland . They are estimated to be about 400 million years old.
Fleas can accelerate 50 times faster than the space shuttle.
Bees have been known to cure rheumatism.
You can figure out which way is south if you are near a tree stump. The growth rings are wider on the south side.
Chimpanzees are the only animals that can recognize themselves in a mirror.
The fungus Cordyceps is able to 'mind-control' other insects like ants to climb plants and attach there to become its food.
There are more insects in one square mile of rural land than there are humans on the entire earth.
Seventy percent of the plants identified by the U.S. National Cancer Institute as useful in the treatment of cancer are found only in rainforests.
Wheat is the world's most widely cultivated plant; grown on every continent except Antarctica.
The average human produces a quart of saliva a day -- about 10,000 gallons in a lifetime
Life began in the seas 3.1 billion to 3.4 billion years ago. Land dwellers appeared 400 million years ago; a relatively recent point in the geologic time line.
Earth's largest continuous mountain chain is the Mid-Ocean Ridge, stretching for 40,000 miles, rising above the surface of the water in a few places, such as Iceland. It is four times longer than the Andes, Rocky Mountains, and Himalayas combined.
A cubic mile of ordinary fog contains less than a gallon of water.
A single bacteria cell, given all the food it needs, could divide into a ball of cells the size of the Earth in 24 hours.
The human body contains about six-thousand miles of blood vessels.
The world's smallest frog - The Little Grass Frog - is no bigger than a house fly.
The first American advertisement for tobacco was published in 1789. It showed a picture of an Indian smoking a long clay pipe.
The flower with the world's largest bloom is the Rafflesia arnoldii. This rare flower is found in the rainforests of Indonesia. It can grow to be 3 feet across and weigh up to 15 pounds.
Global Positioning System (GPS) is the only system today that can show your exact position on the Earth anytime, in any weather, no matter where you are!
When the queen of a clownfish school dies, a male clownfish changes its gender to become female and takes her place.
Less than one percent of the tropical rainforest species have been analyzed for their medicinal value.
The industrial complex of Cubatao in Brazil is known as the Valley of Death because its pollution has destroyed the trees and rivers nearby.
A mature birch tree can produce up to 1 million seeds per year.
If your mouth was completely dry, you would not be able to distinguish the taste of anything.
Babies are born far sighted - their eyes start to focus properly between 3 to 6 months of age.
When you get goosebumps and your hair stands, the hair helps to trap air, making you feel warmer by keeping in your body heat.
The average airspeed of the common housefly is 4 1/2 mph. A housefly beats its wings about 20,000 times per minute.
The inside of a tree is made of phloem, cambium, and xylem.
Sepals are usually green. They are the first part that forms on a bud and, when the bud opens, the sepals remain beneath the petals of the flower. Sometimes sepals hold tightly against the bottom of the petals, and sometimes they curl away from the petals.
There is an average of 50,000 spiders per acre in green areas.
Petals are usually colorful, and they attract insects and birds that help with pollination.
The ichneumon fly has a sense of smell so keen that it can locate a caterpillar deep inside a tree trunk.
Plants often grow from seeds.
The ears of a cricket are located on the front legs, just below the knee.
Most earthquakes are triggered less than 50 miles (80 kilometers) from the surface of the Earth.
One of the tallest soft wood trees is the General Sherman, a giant redwood sequoia of California. General Sherman is about 275 ft or 84 m high with a girth of 25 ft or 8 m.
Bananas are actually giant herbs - related to the orchid family.
The human brain is 80% water.
The only insect that can turn its head 360 degrees is the praying mantis.
Elephants can hear through their feet.
One bushel of corn will sweeten more than 400 cans of pop.
The largest meteorite crater in the world is in Winslow, Arizona. It is 4,150 feet across and 150 feet deep.
The monarch butterfly's sense of taste is about 12,000 times more sensitive than a human's.
The volume of the Earth's moon is the same as the volume of the Pacific Ocean.
Coniferous forest belt supplies most of the world's requirement of newsprint.
Earth travels through space at 66,700 miles per hour.
About 70% of the world's fresh water is stored as glacial ice.
Undersea earthquakes and other disturbances cause tsunamis, or great waves. The largest recorded tsunami measured 210 feet above sea level when it reached Siberia's Kamchatka Peninsula in 1737.
The liver is the only organ able to regenerate itself completely.
El Azizia in Libya recorded a temperature of 136 degrees Fahrenheit (57.8 Celsius) on Sept. 13, 1922 - the hottest ever measured.
Trees keep our air supply fresh by absorbing carbon dioxide and producing oxygen.
Trees provide protection from downward fall of rain, sleet, and hail as well as reduce storm run-off and the possibility of flooding,
The largest single flower is the Rafflesia or 'corpse flower'. They are generally 3 feet in diameter with the record being 42 inches.
The stem contains the plant's two-way transportation system made up of two systems of tubes. One tube system carries food and minerals up into the plant. Then when the leaves make food, the other tube system carries the food into the stem and back into the roots for storage.
Every year in the United States each person uses the equivalent of one tree, 100 feet tall and 16 inches in diameter, to fulfill their wood and paper needs.
Arrowroot, an antidote for poisoned arrows, is used as a thickener in cooking.
Nearly 70 percent of the Earth's fresh-water supply is locked up in the icecaps of Antarctica and Greenland. The remaining fresh-water supply exists in the atmosphere, streams, lakes, or groundwater and accounts for a mere 1 percent of the Earth's total.
There are two types of elephant, the Asian elephant and the African elephant (although sometimes the African Elephant is split into two species, the African Forest Elephant and the African Bush Elephant).
The nerves in our body are most concentrated in our fingertips.
Farmers grow corn on every continent except Antarctica.
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that of the seventeen major fisheries areas in the world, four are depleted and the other thirteen are either fished to capacity or overfished.
At the current rate of tropical forest loss, 5-10 percent of tropical rainforest species will be lost per decade.
About one-third surface of the Earth's land is desert.
The sunrays reached at the earth in 8 minutes & 3 seconds.
United Arab Emirates is only the country where death rate 2.11/1000 (deaths/1,000 population) is lowest (2009 est.) in the world.
Almost a third of the world\u2019s total land area is covered by forests.
The housefly hums in the middle octave, key of F
A dragonfly flaps its wings 20 to 40 times a second, bees and houseflies 200 times, some mosquitoes 600 times, and a tiny gnat 1,000 times.
An ostrich egg is also the largest existing single cell.
The tongue of a blue whale is bigger than a taxi cab, and can weigh as much as an elephant.
Trees lower air temperature by evaporating water in their leaves.
There are between 100,000,000,000 and 1,000,000,000,000 stars in a normal galaxy.
When hunting alone, the wolf catches small animals such as squirrels, hares, chipmunks, raccoons or rabbits. However, a pack of wolves can hunt very large animals like moose, caribou and yaks.
In 1934, a gust of wind reached 371 km/h on Mount Washington in New Hampshire, USA.
The Pacific Ocean is the largest ocean, covers 64 million square miles (165 million square kilometers). It is more than two times the size of the Atlantic.
The amount of oxygen produced by an acre of trees per year equals the amount consumed by 18 people annually. One tree produces nearly 260 pounds of oxygen each year.
The Arabian Sea and the Persian Gulf are connected by the Hormuz Strait.
The Sarawak Chamber in Malaysia is the largest cave in the world is 2300 feet (701 meters) long, 1300 feet (400 meters) wide, and more than 230 feet (70 meters) high.
There are about 600 kernels on each ear of corn.
Certain fireflies emit a light so penetrating that it can pass through flesh and wood.
Cranberries are one of just 3 major fruits native to North America. Blueberries and Concord grapes are the other two.
There are more species of fish in Amazon river than in the entire Atlantic Ocean (Over 2,000).
Some species of earthworm can have as many as 10 hearts.
A hedgehog's heart beats 300 times a minute on average.
An inch of rain water is equivalent to 15 inches of dry, powdery snow.
Baikal Lake in Russian Fed. is the deepest lake (5315 ft) in the world.
A single baked potato contains less than 250 calories and is over 99% fat free.
Scientists have identified more than 300 viruses capable of bringing fatal diseases to insects. The organisms are believed to be entirely different than those that cause disease in humans, and are thus harmless to man.
The gravity on Mars is 38% of that found on Earth. So a 100 pounds person on Earth would weigh 38 pounds on Mars.
A typical Mayfly only lives one day.
The warmest sea in the world is the Red Sea, where temperatures range from 68 degrees to 87.8 degrees F depending upon which part you measure.
There is a butterfly in Africa with enough poison in it's body to kill six cats.
The surface area of a human lung is equal to that of a tennis court.
The major ions in seawater are Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+, K+, Sr2+, Cl-, SO42- (sulfate), HCO3- (bicarbonate), Br-, B(OH)3 (boric acid), and F-. Together, they account for almost all of the salt in seawater.
Ants cannot chew their food, they move their jaws sideways, like scissors, to extract the juices from the food.
A goldfish (like most marine fish) can survive in a tank full of human blood.
20/20 vision means the eye can see normally at 20 feet. 20/15 is better; the eye can see at 20 feet what another eye sees at 15 feet.
You shed and regrow your skin every 28 days, that's about 1000 times in a lifetime.
The Antarctic Ice Sheet is almost twice the size of the United States.
The temperature of Earth near the center, its thought to be at least 7,000 degrees Fahrenheit (3,870 Celsius).
Lake Mead is the largest man-made lake and reservoir in the United States. Formed by water impounded by Hoover Dam, it extends 110 mi (180 km) behind the dam, holding approximately 28.5 million acre feet (35 km) of water.
The largest temperate rainforests are found on North America's Pacific Coast and stretch from Northern California up into Canada.
A large woodpecker can peck as fast as 20 times a second and up to 12,000 times a day.
Starfish don't have brains.
The human head is a quarter of our total length at birth, but only an eighth of our total length by the time we reach adulthood.
Human thigh bones are stronger than concrete.
Tropical ants, when a flood sweeps down on them, roll themselves into a huge living ball which drifts upon the water, with the young safe and dry at the core.
At least 1,000 million grams, or roughly 1,000 tons of material (dust) enters the atmosphere every year and makes its way to Earths surface.
One acre of trees removes up to 2.6 tons of carbon dioxide each year.
Earth's atmosphere is actually about 80 percent nitrogen. Most of the rest is oxygen, with tiny amounts of other stuff thrown in.
Commercial marine fisheries in the United States discard up to 20 billion pounds of non-target fish each year-- twice the catch of desired commercial and recreational fishing combined. Worldwide this adds up to a staggering 60 billion pounds each year!!
Trees cut down noise pollution by acting as sound barriers.
A lobster has a sense of smell about 1000 times keener than a human.
Fleas can jump 130 times higher than their own height. In human terms, that's a 6ft tall person jumping 780 ft in the air.
About 20 to 30 volcanoes erupt each year, mostly under the sea.
A swarm of Rocky Mountain locusts flew over Nebraska on July 20-30, 1874 covering an area estimated at 198,600 square miles. The swarm must have contained at least 12.5 trillion insects, weighing about 27.5 million tons.
The popular name for the giant sequoia tree is Redwood.
Arrowroot, an antidote for poisoned arrows, is used as a thickener in cooking (so if you ever get shot with a poison arrow, do not go to a doctor, look in your kitchen cabinet.
Elephants have no natural predators. However, lions will sometimes prey on young or weak elephants in the wild. The main risk to elephants is from humans through poaching and changes to their habitat.
About 1.5 million tons of ground cocoa beans from the tropical tree are used each year to make chocolate and cocoa products. That\u2019s greater than the weight of more than 300,000 elephants!
During a hurricane, 90% of the people who die end up dying from drowning.
Banana oil never saw a banana; it's made from petroleum.
Out of 20000 species of bees, only 4 make honey.
Before 1500 A.D., there were approximately 6 million indigenous people living in the Brazilian Amazon. But as the forests disappeared, so too did the people. In the early 1900s, there were less than 250,000 indigenous people living in the Amazon.
Archeologists have found evidence that humans have enjoyed eating apples since 6500 B.C. Each of us eats more than 19 pounds of apples annually.
In Siberia, in 1994, a container full of marijuana was discovered in the 2,000-year-old grave of a Scythian princess and priestess, among the many other articles buried with her.
An arabica coffee tree can produce up to 12 pounds of coffee a year, depending on soil and climate.
The highest temperature ever recorded in the United States was 134 degrees F at Greenland Ranch in Death Valley, California.
Stems, leaves, primary roots, secondary roots, root hairs, and buds are plant parts. Click here to see the parts of a plant!
The plant life in the oceans make up about 85 percent of all the greenery on the Earth.
Only female mosquitoes bite people.
Every four days the worlds population increases by one million people.
Some crickets burrow megaphone-like tunnels that help transport the sound of their chirps as far as 2,000 feet away.
The oceans contain 99 percent of the living space on the planet.
Giraffes could pass out with blood filling their brain when they lower their neck, so they have a sponge-like organ in the head which slowly gathers and releases blood.
Rain has never been recorded in some parts of the Atacama Desert in Chile.
There are more living organisms on the skin of a single human being than there are human beings on the surface of the earth.
Bees have 5 eyes. There are 3 small eyes on the top of a bee's head and 2 larger ones in front.
A housefly can transport germs as far as 15 miles away from the original source of contamination.
The Stegosaurus dinosaur measured up to 30 feet (9.1 meters) long but had a brain the size of a walnut.
Both female and male African elephants have tusks but only the male Asian elephants have tusks. They use their tusks for digging and finding food.
Shrimp's heart is in its head.
Continents are typically defined as landmasses made of low-density rock that essentially floats on the molten material below. Greenland fits this description.
Water-meal or Wolffia globosa is the smallest flower in the world, its contains some 38 species of the smallest and simplest flowering plants.
The Earth is the densest major body in the solar system.
A mosquito has 47 teeth.
In 1958, the United States Coast Guard icebreaker East Wind measured the world's tallest known iceberg off western Greenland. At 550 feet it was only 5 feet 6 inches shorter than the Washington Monument in Washington, D.C.
Porcupines float in water.
Bluefin tuna, Thunnus thynnus, are among the largest and fastest marine fish. An adult may weigh 1,500 pounds and swim up to 55 miles per hour.
Dr. Joel Poinsett, the 1st US ambassador to Mexico, brought the poinsettia to US in 1828. The plant, called 'flower of the blessed night' in Mexico was renamed in Poinsett's honor.
Emus and kangaroos cannot walk backwards.
The human body has enough fat to produce 7 bars of soap.
Maggots were once used to treat a bone infection called osteomyelitis.
By volume, the ocean makes up 99 percent of the planet's living space- the largest space in our universe known to be inhabited by living organisms.
Armadillos can walk underwater.
An iguana can stay under water for twenty-eight minutes.
Honeybees have hair on their eyes.
Ants do not sleep.
Nearly 90 percent of the 1.2 billion people living in extreme poverty worldwide depend on forests for their livelihoods.
Total fertility rate of the world is 2.59 children born/woman.
Secondary roots grow from the primary root.
Male bees will try to attract sex partners with orchid fragrance.
Blueberries are the second most popular berry in the United States.
The blue whale can produce the loudest sound produced by an animal - up to 188 decibels - and detected as far away as 853 kms (530mi).
About 400 billion gallons water is used worldwide each day.
Green turtles can migrate more than 1,400 miles to lay their eggs.
Peanuts are beans.
Trees and other plants make their food through a process called photosynthesis.
The water that falls on a single acre of land during one inch of rainfall, it would weigh 113 tons that is 226,000 pounds.
The world's windiest place is Commonwealth Bay, Antartica with winds regularly exceeding 150 miles per hour.
Elephants can swim - they use their trunk to breathe like a snorkel in deep water.
A nest in which insects or spiders deposit their eggs is called a 'nidus'.
Tarantulas do not use muscles to move their legs. They control the amount of blood pumped into them to extend and retract their legs.
F: The lightest organ in the human body is the lung.
Little Miss Muffet was arachnaphobic.
Worms can have up to ten hearts.
Covering less than 2 percent of the Earth's total surface area, the world's rainforests are home to 50 percent of the Earth's plants and animals.
The largest recorded snowflake was 15in wide and 8in thick. It fell in Montana in 1887.
The cow has four stomachs, as most ruminant mammals do.
Whales were once land mammals that moved to the sea and adapted to marine life.
The katydid has supersonic hearing. It can hear sounds up to 4-5,000 vibrations per second.
California produces almost all of the broccoli sold in the United States.
The silkworm moth has lost the ability of flight due to domestication.
A pineapple is a berry.
Sheeps, goats and the octopus have almost rectangular-oval pupils in their eyes.
Almonds are the oldest, most widely cultivated and extensively used nuts in the world.
The ant can lift things 10 times its own weight.
The animal with the largest brain in relation to its body is the ant.
Rainforests are critical in maintaining the Earth's limited supply of drinking and fresh water.
Luxembourg is the richest country of the world, the gross national product (GNP) of Luxembourg is $45,360.
Earth's oceans are an average of 2 Miles deep
The biggest egg in the world is the ostrich egg. It could take as many as 30 chicken eggs to equal its volume, and up to 2 hours to hard boil.
In one year, an acre of trees can absorb as much carbon as is produced by a car driven up to 8700 miles.
The California redwood - coast redwood and giant sequoia - are the tallest and largest living organism in the world.
From a distance, Earth would be the brightest of the 9 planets. This is because sunlight is reflected by the planet's water.
Pineapple is actually a giant berry.
In relation to its size, the ordinary house spider is eight times faster than an Olympic sprinter.
Elephants are herbivores and can spend up to 16 hours days collecting leaves, twigs, bamboo and roots.
Mosquitoes prefer children to adults, and blondes to brunettes.
Trees are the longest living organisms on earth.
As an adult, you have more than 20 square feet of skin on your body--about the same square footage as a blanket for a queen-sized bed.
From the age of thirty, humans gradually begin to shrink in size.
A fly can react to something it sees and change direction in 30 milliseconds.
The largest eggs in the world are laid by a shark.
You're more likely to get stung by a bee on a windy day that in any other weather.
The trunk of a tree is the tree's stem.
The moon is one million times drier than the Gobi Desert.
Mount Everest 8850 meter (29035 ft) Nepal/China is the tallest mountain.
Stamens have two parts - a stalk called the filament and the anther, which is at the tip.
The highest tides in the world are at the Bay of Fundy, which separates New Brunswick from Nova Scotia. At some times of the year the difference between high and low tide is 53 feet 6 inches, the equivalent of a five-story building.
A cucumber is 96% water.
The acceleration rate of a flea's jump is 20 times that of a space shuttle during launch.
Every second, a slice of rainforest the size of a football field is mowed down. That's 86,400 football fields of rainforest per day, or over 31 million football fields of rainforest each year.
Scientists have actually performed brain surgery on cockroaches.
For every 1000 red blood cells in our body, there is only about one white cell.
In the United States, more tomatoes are consumed than any other single fruit or vegetable!
Lloro, Colombia is the wettest place on Earth, averages 523.6 inches of rainfall a year, or more than 40 feet (13 meters). That's about 10 times more than fairly wet major cities in Europe or the United States.
Hummingbirds are the only animals able to fly backwards.
Roots are covered with root hairs that absorb water and minerals.
Dolphins and whales are mammals that don't drink water.
Certain kinds of insects can live as long as a year after having their head severed. What's more, the insects can still react to stimuli, such as light and temperature.
Honeybees navigate using the sun as a compass, even when it is hidden behind clouds - they find it via the polarization of ultraviolet light from areas of blue sky.
Each Wonder (in 7 wonders) has its own intrigue. Historian agree that the Pyramids stood the test of time, the Lighthouse is the only Wonder that has a practical secular use, and the Temple of Artemis was the most beautiful of all Wonders.
There are 4,300 known species of ladybugs in the world.
The red planet 'Mars' takes 687 Earth-days to go around the Sun, compared to 365 days for Earth.
Leaves capture energy from light and change it into energy that plants can use.
The Horseshoe crab has blue blood.
Giant kelp, the fastest growing plant in the ocean, can grow up to 2 feet per day. Under optimal conditions, giant kelp can grow to a length of more than 100 feet in little more than a year and can grow to a maximum of 200 feet.
Lost or discarded fishing nets keep on fishing. Called 'ghost nets,' this gear entangles fish, marine mammals, and sea birds, preventing them from feeding or causing them to drown. As many as 20,000 northern fur seals may die each year from becoming entangled in netting.
A mature, well-established termite colony with as many as 60,000 members will eat only about one-fifth of an ounce of wood a day.
Nutmeg is extremely poisonous if injected intravenously.
Until 1883, hemp was the world's largest agricultural crop, from which the majority of fabric, soap, paper, medicines,  were produced.
The fastest speed a falling raindrop can hit you is 18mph.
Only 3% water of the earth is fresh, rest 97% salted. Of that 3%, over 2% is frozen in ice sheets and glaciers. Means less than 1% fresh water is found in lakes, rivers and underground.
The human eye blinks an average of 4,200,000 times each year.
The Atlantic Giant Squid's eye can be as large as 15.75 inches (40 centimeters) wide.
It is estimated that medical waste that washed up onto Long Island and New Jersey beaches in the summer of 1988 cost as much as $3 billion in lost revenue from tourism and recreation.
After mating, the female black widow spider turns on her partner and devours him. The female may dispatch as many as twenty-five suitors a day in this manner.
Trees improve water quality by slowing and filtering rain water as well as protecting aquifers and watersheds.
House flies have a lifespan of two weeks.
Wolves have two layers of fur, an undercoat and a top coat, which allow them to survive in temperatures as low at minus 40 degrees Celsius! In warmer weather they flatten their fur to keep cool.
15 million blood cells are produced and destroyed in the human body every second.
The ocean is a source of mineral deposits, including oil and gas.
Mars days are 24 hours and 37 minutes long, compared to 23 hours, 56 minutes on Earth.
The world's tallest tree is a coast redwood in California, measuring more than 360 ft or 110 m.
The xylem of a tree carries water from the roots to the leaves.
The ocean accounts for 0.022 percent of the total weight of earth, weighing an estimated 1,450,000,000,000,000,000 short tons (1 short ton = 2,000lbs).
F: Wolf pups are born deaf and blind while weighing around 0.5 kg (1 lb). It takes about 8 months before they are old enough to actively join in wolf pack hunts.
Insects make up two thirds of known species.
The electric eel of South America (Electrophorus electricus) can generate over 600 volts, and can paralyze even a horse.
The coldest seas are found near the poles such as the Greenland, Barents, Beaufort, Kara, Laptev & East Siberian Seas found near the north pole & Weddell & Ross Seas found in the south poles. The Baltic Sea is also considered one of the coldest seas.
About 97 percent of all water on earth is in our oceans, 2 percent is frozen in our ice caps and glaciers, less than 0.3 percent is carried in the atmosphere in the form of clouds, rain, and snow. All of our inland seas, lakes and channels combined add up to only 0.02 percent of earth's water.
Hydroponics is the technique by which plants are grown in water without soil.
The bright orange color of carrots tell you they are an excellent source of Vitamin A which is important for good eyesight, especially at night. Vitamin A helps your body fight infection, and keeps your skin and hair healthy.
The United States uses an estimated 10 million tons of salt each year to melt ice on the roads.
The EARTH has over 1,200,000 species of animals, 300,000 species of plants & 100,000 other species.
Healthy nails grow about 2 cm each year. Fingernails grow four times as fast as toenails.
Everyone's tongue print is different.
In the Netherlands, in 1634, a collector paid 1,000 pounds of cheese, four oxen, eight pigs, 12 sheep, a bed, and a suit of clothes for a single bulb of the Viceroy tulip.
Ladybugs bleed to protect themselves. When alarmed, they release drops of a reddish or yellowish bitter tasting liquid from their mouths and from the pores at their joints. This repels prospective attackers.
Rats multiply so quickly that in 18 months, two rats could have over 1 million descendents.
Rats can swim for half a mile (0.8 km) without rest, and can tread water for three straight days.
Ninety percent of all volcanic activity occurs in the oceans. In 1993, scientists located the largest known concentration of active volcanoes on the sea floor in the South Pacific. This area, the size of New York State, hosts 1,133 volcanic cones and seamounts. Two or three could erupt any moment.
Willow bark, which provides the salicylic acid from which aspirin was originally synthesized, has been used as a pain remedy ever since the Greeks discovered its therapeutic power nearly 2,500 years ago.
The largest insect in the world, the meganeuron, a prehistoric dragonfly, measured 29 inches from wingtip to wingtip.
The Antarctic ice sheet is 3-4 km thick, covers 13 million sq km and has temperatures as low as -70 degrees centigrade.
The life of an eyelash is about 5 months.
Spend time watching a spider and you will see that they painstakingly avoid the sticky silk and walk on the spokes. Should the spider be startled and walk in the sticky silk it will affix to the spider the same as it would you or any thing else.
The right lung takes in more air than the left.
Shanghai, China is the largest city by population (13.3 million) in the world.
With more than 80,000 arms, the Basket Starfish has the greatest number of arms.
The world's largest amphibian is the giant salamander. It can grow up to 5 ft. in length.
To avoid predators, a mother Slow Loris licks its offspring with poison before sending them off to search for food.
The Mauna Loa volcano in Hawaii is the largest volcanoon on Earth. It rises more than 50,000 feet (9.5 miles or 15.2 kilometers) above its base, which sits under the surface of the sea.
If extracted, it is estimated that all the gold suspended in the world's seawater would give each person on Earth 9 pounds.
Carrots, potatoes, and radishes are examples of roots that we eat.
A fish never closes its eyes.
Originally, 6 million square miles of tropical rainforest existed worldwide. But as a result of deforestation, only 2.6 million square miles remain.
March 14 is 'Save a spider day.'
The Methuselah tree in California, USA, is the oldest living organism (4,800 years old) known today.
here are many different shapes and colors of leaves. Click this link to see leaves of different shapes and colors!
The coldest temperature ever recorded was a negative 126.9 degrees fahrenheit in Vostok Station, Antarctica.
No species of wild plant produces a flower or blossom that is absolutely black, and so far, none has been developed artificially.
The oldest living thing in existence is not a giant redwood, but a bristlecone pine in the White Mountains of California, dated to be aged 4,600 years old.
Tremendous erosion at the base of Niagara Falls (USA) undermines the shale cliffs and as a result the falls have receded approximately 7 miles over the last 10,000 years.
Lightning sets about 10,000 forest fires every year in the United States.
The berry butterflies (hypsa monycha) of Singapore, in their caterpillar stage, group around the top of a stem to foil predatory birds by imitating the appearance of a poisonous berry.
A slow cascade of water beneath the Denmark Strait sinks 2.2 miles; more than 3.5 times farther than Venezuela's Angel Falls, the tallest waterfall on land.
In 1783 an Icelandic eruption threw up enough dust to temporarily block out the sun over Europe.
The oarfish, Regalecus glesne, is the longest bony fish in the world. With its snakelike body, sporting a magnificent red fin along its 50-foot length horselike face and blue gills, it accounts for many sea-serpent sightings
Sunflower seeds really aren't seeds at all. They are actually hard, dry fruits called achenes. Inside an achene is one seed. Achenes do not break open to release the seed inside.
Our eyes can distinguish as many as 10 million distinct colour variations.
The human heart has enough pressure to squirt blood up to 30 feet away.
The Giant Burrowing Frog doesn't croak. It hoots like an owl.
The most dangerous animal in the world is the common housefly. Because of their habits of visiting animal waste, they transmit more diseases than any other animal.
Tomatoes are very high in the carotenoid Lycopene; eating foods with carotenoids can lower your risk of cancer.
The Arctic stays black and fiercely cold for months on end. In the High Arctic, the sun sets in October and does not rise again until late February.
While we're awake, our brain generates enough power to illuminate a light bulb of 25 watts.
The typical lifetime of a small cumulus cloud is between 10 to 15 minutes.
Lake Bosumtwi in Ghana formed in a hollow made by a meteorite.
Asia Continent is covered 30% of the total earth land area, but represent 60% of the world's population.
Penguins 'fly' underwater at up to 55 miles per hour
Rainforests provide many important products for people: timber, coffee, cocoa and many medicinal products, including those used in the treatment of cancer.
Spiders recycle their webbing, so a spider that gets stuck in its own web may eat its way out.
The Angel Falls in Venezuela is the world's highest waterfall (979 meters / 3212 ft.), three times the size of the Eiffel Tower.
Women blink nearly twice as much as men.
An acre of trees can remove about 13 tons of dust and gases every year from the surrounding environment.
Asparagus is a member of the lily family, which also includes onions, leeks, and garlic. Source of this fact and the next three.
Mars has two satellites, Phobos and Deimos. The Earth has only one natural satellite, but it's the Moon.
Over 90 percent of trade among countries is carried by ships.
Elephants are the largest land-living mammal in the world.
Fleas can jump more than 200 times their body length.
Each tassel on a corn plant releases as many as 5 million grains of pollen.
Some species of Bamboo can grow at the rate of 1 metres in 24 hours.
Every year in the US, 625 people are struck by lightning.
Northern Mariana Islands is only the country where death rate (2.29/1000) is lowest in the world.
The silkworm's silk comes out of its mouth as a thread of gooey liquid, so that nice silk blouse you spent a fortune on is really just worm spit.
The zebra mussel is the most famous unwanted ship stowaway, but the animals and plants being transported to new areas through ship ballast water is a problem around the world. Poisonous algae, cholera, and countless plants and animals have invaded harbor waters and disrupted ecological balance.
A typical four square mile patch of rainforest contains as many as 1,500 flowering plants, 750 species of trees, 400 species of birds and 150 species of butterflies.
Eighty-five percent of all life on Earth is Plankton.
A horn worm can eat an entire tomato plant by itself in one day!
Shark's teeth are literally as hard as steel.
When a coffee seed is planted, it takes five years to yield consumable fruit.
Leaves have veins that help to carry water and minerals to different parts of each leaf. Sometimes many veins are networked within a single leaf. Click this link to see some leaf veins close up!
With only 4.3 percent of the world population, Americans use about one-third of the world's processed mineral resources and about one-fourth of the world's non-renewable energy sources, like oil and coal.
Bananas are the most popular fruit in America. The average person eats 33 pounds of bananas a year!
The bright orange color of carrots tell you they\u2019re an excellent source of Vitamincarrot.jpg (11952 bytes) A which is important for good eyesight, especially at night. Vitamin A helps your body fight infection, and keeps your skin and hair healthy.
Life began in the seas 3.1 billion to 3.4 billion years ago. Land dwellers appeared 400 million years ago, a relatively recent point in the geologic time line.
A starfish can turn its stomach inside out.
Roots help to anchor plants and give them support.
The cottonwood tree seed is the seed that stays in flight the longest. The tiny seed is surrounded by ultra-light, white fluff hairs that can carry it on the air for several days.
Female elephants spend their entire lives living in large groups called herds. Male elephant leave their herds at about 13 years old and live fairly solitary lives from this point.
One-fifth of the world?s fresh water is found in the Amazon Basin.
If a person or an animal is born colorblind, they instantly have excellent night vision.
Ants stretch when they wake up. They also appear to yawn in a very human manner before taking up the tasks of the day.
Sunlight can penetrate clean ocean water to a depth of 240 feet.
The Coast Guard estimates that for United States waters, sewage treatment plants discharge twice as much oil each year as tanker spills.
Tibet is the highest country in the world. Its average height above sea level is 4500 meters.
The DNA in a single human cell is 37 metres long when unravelled.
Substances from marine plants and animals are used in scores of products, including medicine, ice cream, toothpaste, fertilizers, gasoline, cosmetics, and livestock feed.
Orchids have the smallest seeds. It takes more than 1.25 million seeds to weigh 1 gram.
Many nations' battles have been fought on or under the water.
The coldest temperature ever measured on Earth was -129 Fahrenheit (-89 Celsius) at Vostok, Antarctica, on July 21, 1983.
Lightning bolts can travel 60 miles.
The adult heart pumps about 7,500 litres of blood every day.
From the 1500's to the 1700's, tobacco was prescribed by doctors to treat a variety of ailments including headaches, toothaches, arthritis and bad breath.
The average tree in metropolitan area survives only about 8 years!
Flowers come in many sizes and shapes. Click this link to see some flowers!
In January and February, the average temperature in the high Arctic is -29 F.
Bell peppers are usually sold green, but they can also be red, purple or yellow.
Avocados have the highest fibre and calories of any fruit.
Egypt's High Aswan Dam, built in the 1960s to provide electricity and irrigation water, diverts up to 95 percent of the Nile River's normal flow. It has since trapped more than one million tons of nutrient rich silt and caused a sharp decline in Mediterranean sardine and shrimp fisheries.
The longest species of centipede is the giant scolopender (Scolopendra gigantea), found in the rain forests of Central and South America. It has 23 segments (46 legs) and specimens have been measured up to 10.5 inches long and 1' in diameter.
Tree roots stabilize soil and prevent erosion.
The temperature of Earth increases about 36 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Celsius) for every kilometer (about 0.62 miles) you go down.
A plant's stem appears and grows upward shortly after the primary root appears. It continues to grow above ground level.
One study of a cruise ship anchor dropped in a coral reef for one day found an area about half the size of a football field completely destroyed, and half again as much covered by rubble that died later. It was estimated that coral recovery would take fifty years.
The natural diet of Lady Beetles consists of soft bodied insects such as aphids, spider mites, and young caterpillars. Adults can consume up to 100 aphids a day.
Oak trees do not have acorns until they are fifty years old or older.
Monaco is the Highest Density Country of the world, 16,205 people per square k.m. live in Monaco.
Crickets don't chirp by rubbing their legs together, they make the noise by rubbing their wings together.
Rainforests act as the world's thermostat by regulating temperatures and weather patterns.
An ant can survive for up to two weeks underwater.
The largest frog in the world is The Goliath Frog of Gabon in West Africa and can grow as big as 33cm long and up to 3kg heavy.
Cats have over one hundred vocal sounds, while dogs only have about ten.
Tea was so expensive when it was first brought to Europe in the early 17th century that it was kept in locked wooden boxes.
The blue whale, Balaenoptera musculus, is the largest known animal ever to have lived on sea or land. Individuals can reach more than 110 feet and weigh nearly 200 tons, more than the weight of 50 adult elephants.
A molecule of water will stay in Earth's atmosphere for an average duration of 10-12 days.
Although Mount Everest is often called the tallest mountain on Earth, Mauna Kea, an inactive volcano on the island of Hawaii, is actually taller. Only 13,796 feet of Mauna Kea stands above sea level, yet it is 33,465 feet tall if measured from the ocean floor to its summit
The world's oldest trees are 4,600 year old Bristlecone pines in the USA
Fruit is really the part of a flower in which seeds grow. Cherries, apples, and even milkweed pods are fruit.
On an average day, a queen bee lays about 1,500 eggs.
There are 328,000,000 cubic miles of seawater on earth, covering approximately 71 percent of earth's surface.
Rice paper isn't made from rice but from a small tree which grows in Taiwan.
The Brazilian 'railroad worm' has a head that glows with a red light, and has a green light on its side.
A huge underground river runs underneath the Nile, with six times more water than the river above.
Ginger has been clinically demonstrated to work twice as well as Dramamine for fighting motion sickness, with no side effects.
At the deepest point in the ocean the pressure is more than 8 tons per square inch, or the equivalent of one person trying to hold-up 50 jumbo jets against the force of gravity.
The world's tallest grass, which has sometimes grown 130 feet or more, is bamboo.
Of the more than 600 million school-age children in the developing world, 120 million primary school-age children are not in school, 53 percent are girls.
The social life in ants and termites has been accompanied by an extraordinary royal perk: a 100-fold increase among queen ants in average maximum lifespan, with some queens surviving for almost 30 years. This longevity can be attributed in part to the sheltered and pampered life of the queen.
The deepest hole ever made by humans is in Kola Peninsula in Russia, was completed in 1989, creating a hole 12,262 meters (7.6 miles) deep.
Between evaporation and falling as precipitation, a droplet of water may travel thousands of miles.
Buds are small swellings on a plant from which a shoot, leaf, or flower usually develops.
A worm is both male and female at the same time (a hermaphrodite.)
DNA unravels at 7000 RPM (revolutions per minute).
Hummingbirds can't walk.
Rainforests are found on every continent across the Earth, except Antarctica.
Australia, (7,617.930 sq km) is widely considered part of a continental landmass, not officially an island. But without doubt it is the largest island on the planet, and when combined with Oceania, the smallest continent on Earth.
The rose family of plants, in addition to flowers, gives us apples, pears, plums, cherries, almonds, peaches and apricots.
The World's largest hot desert is the Sahara in North Africa, at over 9,000,000 km, it is almost as large as the United States.
Elephants have been known to remain standing after they die.
The Peregrine Falcon around 200mph (320 km/h) is the fastest bird on the planet, the top speed recorded is 242.3mph (390 km/h).
A crocodile's tongue is attached to the roof of its mouth.
Our eyes are always the same size from birth, but our nose and ears never stop growing.
If the ocean's total salt content were dried, it would cover the continents to a depth of 500 feet.
Many fish can change sex during the course of their lives. Others, especially rare deep-sea fish, have both male and female sex organs.
The White Sea, in Russia, has the lowest temperature, only -2 degrees centigrade.
Two hundred million years of recorded geologic and biologic history of the Earth are found in the ocean's floor. By studying ocean sediments, scientists can learn about ancient climate, how it changed, and how better to predict our own climate.
Americans eat more bananas than any other fruit: a total of 11 billion a year.
The Giant cricket of Africa enjoys eating human hair.
When the pack kills an animal, the alpha pair always eats first. As food supply is often irregular for wolves, they will eat up to 1/5th of their own body weight at a time to make up for days of missed food.
The average person has over 1,460 dreams a year.
Knowing oceanography can enhance the conditions for trade, communications, and defense.
Pistils, stamens, stigmas, anthers, petals, and sepals are all parts of a flower. Click this link to see the parts of a flower!
An Octopus has three hearts.
Men have more blood in their circulatory system than women and more red blood cells.
The dragonfly has about 30,000 lenses covering the retina of its eye, and thus sees many, many images where we see only one.
A seed contains its own food supply, which helps the sprouting plant as it begins its new life.
Butterflies taste with their hind feet.
An average adult human has skin weighing about 3 kilograms in total.
There are two major types of rainforest: temperate rainforests and tropical rainforests.
Trees provide shade and shelter, reducing yearly heating and cooling costs by 2.1 billion dollars.
Blue whales are found throughout the world's oceans, the lifespan is estimated to be 80 years & population is between 1300 & 2000 only, its dangerously low.
The beautiful but deadly Australian sea wasp (Chironex fleckeri) is the most venomous jellyfish in the world. Its cardiotoxic venom has caused the deaths of 66 people off the coast of Queensland since 1880, with victims dying within 1-3 minutes if medical aid is not available.
Antarctica is the highest, driest, and coldest continent on Earth.
The distance from the surface of Earth to the center is about 3,963 miles (6,378 kilometers).
Moths have no stomach.
The total water supply of the world is 326 million cubic miles (1 cubic mile of water equals more than 1 trillion gallons).
While hibernating, frogs breathe through their skin.
The greatest tide change on earth occurs in the Bay of Fundy. The difference between low tide and high tide can be as great as 54 ft. 6 in. (16.6 meters).
More than 2,000 tropical forest plants have been identified by scientists as having anti-cancer properties.
Seventy percent of the dust in your home consists of shed human skin
A dragonfly's penis is shovel-shaped at the end, to scoop a rival male's sperm out of the female it's impregnating.
There are more insects in a single square mile of fertile soil than there are people on the entire earth.
More than 56,000 square miles of natural forest are lost each year.
Water and minerals flow upward through the roots into the stem of the plant and then into the leaves of the plant.
Rafflesia Arnoldii is the largest flower in world, and can grow as big as an umbrella.
Elephants have large, thin ears. Their ears are made up of a complex network of blood vessels which with regulating an elephants temperature. Blood is circulated through their ears to cool them down in hot climates.
An alligator may go through 2000 to 3000 teeth in a lifetime.
A teaspoonful of soil may contain 100 million bacteria.
The dormant volcano Mauna Kea (on the Big Island of Hawaii) could be considered the tallest mountain in the world. If you measure it from its base in the Hawaiian Trough (3,300 fathoms deep) to its summit of 13,796 feet, it reaches a height of 33,476 feet.
The chances of being struck by lightning is about one in three million.
Eggplant is a member of the thistle family.
English is the second most spoken language (Native speakers 512 million) & the first is Chinese Mandarin (more then 1 billion speakers).
Advertisements for coffee in London in 1657 claimed that the beverage was a cure for scurvy, gout and other ills.
There are more than 700 species of plants that grow in the United States that have been identified as dangerous if eaten. Among them are some that are commonly favored by gardeners: buttercups, daffodils, lily of the valley, sweet peas, oleander, azalea, bleeding heart, delphinium, rhododendron.
Trees located along streets act as a glare and reflection control.
62 degrees Fahrenheit is the minimum temperature required for a grasshopper to be able to hop.
A kind of jellyfish (Turritopsis nutricula) upon reaching adulthood can transform itself back to childhood by converting its cells. It may repeat this to live forever.
An iguana always lands on its feet.
Tarantulas are poisonous, but the concentration of the venom in those found in North America is low enough that they're usually not a threat to human life. In fact, some people keep them as pets.
95% of all animals are invertebrates (without a backbone or spinal column).
The fastest 'regular' wind that's widely agreed upon was 231 mph (372 kph), recorded at Mount Washington, New Hampshire, on April 12, 1934.
The male of one species of insect related to the praying mantis can only reproduce after the female has bitten off his head.
The death of one 70-year old tree would return over three tons of carbon to the atmosphere.
Only 11 percent of the earth's surface is used to grow food.
Grapes are one of the oldest cultivated fruits. They have been around for more than 8,000 years.
A bee could travel 4 million miles (6.5 million km) at 7 mph (11km/h) on the energy it would obtain from 1 gallon (3.785 liters) of nectar.
The people who live on Tristan da Cunha are over 2,000km (about 1,300 miles) from their nearest neighbours on the island of St. Helena. That's nearly as far as Moscow is from London.
There are more beetles than any other kind of creature in the world.
Earth is tipped at 23 and 1/2 degrees in orbit. That axis is what causes our seasons.
The deepest depth in the ocean is 36,198 feet (6.9 miles or 11 kilometers) at the Mariana Trench, in the Pacific Ocean well south of Japan near the Mariana Islands.
The longest recorded distance flown by any chicken is 301.5 feet (about 92 meters) in 13 seconds.
The saltiest sea in the world is the Red Sea with 41 parts of salt per 1,000 parts of water.
Each winter there are about 1 septillion (1, 000, 000, 000, 000, 000, 000, 000, 000 or a trillion trillion) snow crystals that drop from the sky.
The ocean holds immense quantities of protein. The total annual commercial harvest from the seas exceeds 85 million metric tons. Fish is the biggest source of wild or domestic protein in the world.
An elephant's trunk can grow to be about 2 metres long and can weigh up to 140 kg. Some scientists believe that an elephant's trunk is made up of 100,000 muscles, but no bones.
Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 90% of the human body.
Dendrochronology is the science of calculating a tree's age by its rings.
A lightning bolt travels at about 14,000mph and brings 300,000 volts of electricity to the ground.
Chameleons often have tongues longer than their bodies.
The little Alaskan Wood Frog is capable of reviving itself back to normal life after staying completely frozen for months, during which its heart, brain and other organs stop functioning.
Certain species of male butterflies produce scents that serve in attracting females during courtship.
The Reticulated Pythons are the world's longest snake and also the longest reptile.
In one day a hurricane can release enough energy to supply all of the nation's electrical needs for about six months.
Bananas are actually herbs. Bananas die after fruiting, like all herbs do.
Only humans sleep on their backs.
In seahorses, it's the male who gives birth to the young.
The top 10 feet of the ocean hold the same amount of thermal energy as exists in the entire atmosphere.
84% of a raw apple and 96% of a raw cucumber is water. Source of this fact and the next fourteen.
The Largest Ocean of the World is the Pacific Ocean (155,557,000 sq km), It covers nearly one-third of the Earth's surface.
According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the single-seeded fruit of the giant fan palm, or Lodoicea maldivica, can weigh 44 lbs. Commonly known as the double coconut or coco de mer, it is found wild only in the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean.
A wolf can run at a speed of 65 kilometres per hour during a chase. Wolves have long legs and spend most of their time trotting at a speed of 12-16 kilometres per hour. They can keep up a reasonable pace for hours and have been known to cover distances of 90 kilometres in one night.
Wine grapes, oranges, figs and olives were first planted in North America by Father Junipero Sera in 1769.
The hottest planet in the solar system is Venus, with an estimated surface temperature of 864 F (462 C).
About 540 volcanoes on land are known. No one knows how many undersea volcanoes have erupted through history.
Trees provide food and shelter for wildlife.
Turtles and sea cucumbers can breathe through their butts.
Oranges, lemons, watermelons, and tomatoes are berries.
There are more bacteria and microbes in our body than actual cells that make up the body.
The elephant's trunk is able to sense the size, shape and temperature of an object. An elephant uses its trunk to lift food and suck up water then pour it into its mouth.
In 1924, Pope Urban VIII threatened to excommunicate snuff users.
A corn field of one acre gives of 4,000 gallons off water per day in evaporation.
The Sahara Desert in northern Africa is more than 23 times the size of southern California's Mojave Desert.
Average 100 lightning strikes occur worldwide every second.
The leaf bug of ceylon (phyllum sicci folium) has legs and antennae the color and shape of leaves, has indentations on its body like the vein marks on a leaf, and hangs from branches, swaying in the breeze exactly like a leaf.
In your lifetime, you'll shed over 40 pounds of skin.
Asparagus plants are perennials, which means the same asparagus plant will produce spears year after year. In fact, one plant may produce spears for up to 25 years!
At 39 degrees Fahrenheit (3.89 degrees Celsius), the temperature of almost all of the deep ocean is only a few degrees above freezing.
Shade trees can make buildings up to 20 degrees cooler in the summer.
The Antarctic Ice Sheet holds nearly 90 percent of the world's ice and 70 percent of its fresh water. If the entire ice sheet were to melt, sea level would rise by nearly 220 feet.
Avocados have the highest calories of any fruit at 167 calories per hundred grams.
Small cockroaches are more likely to die on their backs than large cockroaches.
Earth is the only planet on which water can exist in liquid form on the surface.
If all major forms of cardiovascular disease were eliminated, human life expectance would increase by 9.78 years.
95% of all the animal species on the earth are insects.
It takes approximately 12 hours for food to entirely digest.
84% of a raw apple is water.
Some seeds stay alive for only a few days and after that they won't sprout at all. Some other seeds need a rest period before they can sprout.
Crickets hear through their knees.
The origin of the word 'volcano' is derives from Vulcan, the Roman god of fire.
A 1960 Chilean earthquake was the strongest earthquake in recent times, which occurred off the coast, had a magnitude of 9.6 and broke a fault more than 1000 miles (1600 kilometers) long.
The largest hailstone ever recorded in the United States was nearly the size of a soccer ball. It was a 7-inch wide chunk of ice.
Caspian Sea, Asia-Europe is the major lake (371,000 sq km) in the world.
If you shrunk a car to the size of a roach, the roach could outrun the car. Roaches can run about 200 scale miles per hour.
Pistils have three parts - the stigma, the style, and the ovary.
Fifty-seven percent of the world?s forests, including most tropical forests, are located in developing countries.
Canada has the longest coastline of any country, at 56,453 miles or around 15 percent of the world's 372,384 miles of coastlines.
The eruption of Tambora volcano is the world's deadliest Volcano in Indonesia in 1815 is estimated to have killed 90,000 people.
A group of herring is called a seige. A group of jelly fish is called a smack.
Groundwater comprises a 30 times greater volume than all freshwater lakes, and more than 3,000 times what's in the world's streams and rivers at any given time.
Any Female bee in a beehive could have been the queen if she had been fed the necessary royal jelly. All female bees in a given hive are sisters.
Stems usually continue to grow upward above the ground and bear leaves in a pattern along the stem. Click this link to see some plant patterns!
Tree rings provide precise information about environmental events, including volcanic eruptions.
Since the architecture and chemistry of coral are very close to human bone, coral has been used to replace bone grafts in helping human bones to heal quickly and cleanly.
Temperate rainforests used to exist on almost every continent in the world, but today only 50 percent - 75 million acres - of these forests remain worldwide.
Female elephants are called cows. They start to have calves when they are about 12 years old and they are pregnant for 22 months.
Fish are the only vertebrates that outnumber birds.
A tree does not reach its most productive stage of carbon storage for about 10 years.
Elephants are the only land animal that can't jump.
Cheetah's can accelerate from 0 to 70 km/h in 3 seconds.
The word 'Arctic' comes from the ancient Greek Arktikos, or 'country of the great bear.' Though the Greeks had no knowledge of the polar bear, they named the region after the constellation Ursus Major, the Great Bear, found in the Northern Sky.
The age of the earth is Loudly proclaimed by the scientific establishment of evolution believers and the mass media as being around 4.6 billion years old.
There are 109 countries with coral reefs. Reefs in 90 of them are being damaged by cruise ship anchors and sewage, by tourists breaking off chunks of coral, and by commercial harvesting for sale to tourists.
The top three countries have the greatest number of historically active volcanoes are Indonesia, Japan, and the United States in descending order of activity.
The normal energy used by our brain is 0.1 calories per minute, and could go up to 1.5 during activities such as puzzle-solving.
Plants that need to attract moths for pollination are generally white or pale yellow, to be better seen when the light is dim. Plants that depend on butterflies, such as the poppy or the hibiscus, have more colorful flowers.
Some spiders have as many as eight eyes.
Honeybees have remained unchanged in form or structure for 20 million years.
The highest temperature produced in a laboratory was 920,000,000 F (511,000,000 C) at the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor in Princeton, NJ, USA.
In 1899, it was so cold that the Mississippi River froze over its entire length.
The lowest dry point on earth is the Dead Sea in the Middle East is about 1300 feet (400 meters) below sea level.
The human brain is 75% water.
Most of the nutrients in a potato reside just below the skin layer.
The world's largest island is Greenland, it covers 840,000 square miles (2,176,000 square kilometers).
93% of a water melon is water.
Birth Rate of Hong Kong is the lowest (7.29/1000) & Niger is highest (50.73/1000).
A woodpecker can peck with a force as high as 1,200 g's with each impact - equivalent to a human striking head against a wall at a speed of 25km (16 miles) an hour each time.
99% of the pumpkins sold in the US end up as jack-o-lanterns.
About half the communications between nations are via underwater cables.
The most frequently found item in beach cleanups are pieces of plastic. The next four items are plastic foam, plastic utensils, pieces of glass and cigarette butts.
A cockroach can live for several weeks without its head.
A bee has four wings.
The air located around a lightning bolt is heated to around 30,000 degrees Celsius. This is 5 times hotter than the surface of the sun.
Trees renew our air supply by absorbing carbon dioxide and producing oxygen.
Dead SeaThe Dead Sea is so dense with salt, you can easily float on it without drowning.
A dogs heart beats 40 times a minute faster than yours.
Rafflesia Arnoldii is the largest flower in world, and can grow as big as an umbrella.
The hottest planet in the solar system is Venus, with an estimated surface temperature of 864 F (462 C).
Alcorn State University in Lorman is the oldest black land grant college in the world.
There is enough energy in one bolt of lightning to power a home for two weeks.
Katmandu is the capital of Nepal.
While only 2% in weight, the human brain requires 15% of the body's heart work, 20% of oxygen and 25% of all glucose.
The average distance between the Earth & the Moon is 238,857 miles (384,392 km).
Termites can't digest wood, the protozoa in their stomach (they eat them when they are younger) actually are the devourers of the wood.
The company that makes Icee Drinks is in Edwards.
After eating, a housefly regurgitates its food and then eats it again!
Air becomes liquid at about minus 190 degrees Celsius.
The ears of a cricket are located on the front legs, just below the knee.
Some species of earthworm can have as many as 10 hearts.
When baby giraffes are born, they drop six feet to the ground and land on their heads.
The shark has to keep moving to stay alive.
To avoid predators, a mother Slow Loris licks its offspring with poison before sending them off to search for food.
A mole can dig a tunnel 300 feet long in just one night.
Nine out of every 10 living things live in the ocean.
40 to 50 percent of body heat can be lost through the head (no hat) as a result of its extensive circulatory network.
The penguin is the only bird who can swim, but cannotfly.
The katydid bug hears through holes in its hind legs!
When Joseph Gayetty invented toilet paper in 1857, he had his name printed on each sheet.
The leg muscles of a locust are about 1000 times more powerful than an equal weight of human muscle.
Avocados have the highest fibre and calories of any fruit.
The Earth orbits the sun at an average speed of 107,220 kms per hour.
The city of Dallas is known as 'The Big D.'
There's enough gold in the Earth's crust to cover the entire land surface knee-deep.
The microwave was invented after a researcher walked by a radar tube and a chocolate bar melted in his pocket.
The human eye blinks an average of 4,200,000 times each year.
In your lifetime your body will produce more thatn 25,000 quarts of saliva.
Some ribbon worms will eat themselves if they can't find any food.
October 10 is National Metric Day.
The only nation whose name begins with an 'A', but doesn't end in an 'A' is Afghanistan.
Cars were first made with ignition keys in 1949.
The worlds fastest-growing plant is the giant water lily, which grows almost a foot a day.
There are more beetles than any other kind of creature in the world.
If you stretch a standard Slinky out flat it measures 87 feet long.
You can convert graphite into diamond by applying a temperature of 3000 Celsius and pressure of 100,000 atm.
The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
Mosquitoes like the scent of estrogen, hence, women get bitten by mosquitoes more often than men do.
A new born blue whale measures 20-26 feet (6.0 - 7.9 meters) long and weighs up to 6,614 pounds (3003 kg).
While hibernating, frogs breathe through their skin.
A solar panel 100 miles by 100 miles (161x161km) in the Mojave Desert (USA) could replace all the coal now burned to generate electricity in the entire U.S.
If given the same mass, our body would actually be hotter than the sun.
Gold is the only metal that doesn't rust, even if it is buried in the ground for thousands of years.
An ostrich's eye is bigger that its brain.
An ostrich egg is also the largest existing single cell.
Devon is the only county in Great Britain to have two coasts.
The sky is blue because when sunlight collides with our atmosphere, colours of the shortest wavelengths (violet and blue) are scattered - and our eyes are more sensitive to see blue.
Did you know that African Elephants stay on their feet for 30 to 40 year?
Forty six percent of the world's water is in the Pacific Ocean. The Atlantic has 23.9 percent; the Indian, 20.3; the Arctic, 3.7 percent.
Men get hiccups more often than women do.
In a life time, your heart will pump about 50,000,000 gallons. That's enough to fill 2,500 rail road cars 21 miles long.
The deepest location on Earth is Mariana Trench, about 11km deep in the North Pacific ocean.
A zebra is white with black stripes.
Shrimp's hearts are in their heads.
The oldest field game in America is Stickball founded by the Choctaw Indians of Philadelphia.
Ten minutes of one hurricane contains enough energy to match the nuclear stockpiles of the world.
Using satellite-surveying techniques, scientists have determined that Los Angeles, California is moving east. At a rate estimated to be about one-fifth on an inch per year, the city is moving closer to the San Gabriel Mountains.
Official studies have found that right handed people tend to scratch with their left hand and visa-versa.
Talc is the softest known substance.
A space vehicle must move at a rate of at least 27.35km (17 miles) per second to escape Earth's gravity.
Pumice floatingThe only rock that floats in water is pumice.
Every four days the worlds population increases by one million people.
55,700 people in the US are injured by jewelry each year.
According to NASA, the U.S. has the world's most violent weather. In a typical year, the U.S. can expect some 10,000 violent thunderstorms, 5,000 floods, 1,000 tornadoes and several hurricanes.
For every 1000 red blood cells in our body, there is only about one white cell.
Peanuts are one of the ingredients in Dynamite.
It takes light 8 minutes to trave lfrom the sun.
The rings of Saturn are made of ice chunks; some as small as an ice cube and some are as big as a house.
Most gemstones contain several elements. The exception? The diamond. It's all carbon.
Chameleons often have tongues longer than their bodies.
The most remote island in the world is Tristan da Cunha, which is above the sub-Antarctic zone.
The first PTA was in Crystal Springs.
40 years ago: An all-female population of lizards was discovered in Armenia.
Elephants are the only land animal that can't jump.
The Atlantic Ocean grows at about the same rate as your fingernails.
A new star is born in our galaxy every 18 days.
Honeybees have remained unchanged in form or structure for 20 million years.
The human eye blinks an average of 4,200,000 times a year.
Our eyes can distinguish as many as 10 million distinct colour variations.
French speaking residents of Belgium are called Walloons.
Lorne Greene had one of his nipples bitten off by an alligator while he was host of Lorne Greens Wild Kingdom.
The cigarette lighter was invented before the match.
Dolphins cannot stay long underwater because they breathe through their blowholes above water. S
The starfish is one of the only animals who can turn it's stomach inside-out.
Crocodiles swallow stones to help them dive deeper.
A full grown bear can run as fast as a horse.
Unlike humans, canaries can regenerate their brain cells.
Chalk is made of trillions of microscopic skeleton fossils of plankton (a tiny sea creature).
If an item moves very, very fast, it becomes smaller and heavier.
A pigs orgasm lasts for thirty minutes.
In Miami, Florida, roosting vultures have taken to snatching poodles from rooftop patios.
The world's smallest flowering plant is the Wolffia, whose one full bouquet of flowers can fit on the head of a push-pin.
The highest temperature produced in a laboratory was 920,000,000 F (511,000,000 C) at the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor in Princeton, NJ, USA.
Eighty-five percent of all life on Earth is Plankton.
Seoul, the South Korean capital, just means 'the capital' in the Korean language.
Whales were once land mammals that moved to the sea and adapted to marine life.
Twenty percent of Earth's oxygen is produced by the Amazon forest.
Despite being closest to the sun, Mercury is not the hottest planet. The hottest planet is Venus (at 462 Celsius).
The saguaro cactus of the Arizona Desert grows less than one inch in its first 10 years.
The first people to arrive on Iceland were Irish explorers, in 795 A.D.
The Sun loses 360 million tonnes of material each day.
A hedgehog's heart beats 300 times a minute on average.
Most gemstones contain several elements, except diamond which is all carbon.
Ants cannot chew their food, they move their jaws sideways, like scissors, to extract the juices from the food.
The pouch under a pelicans bill holds up to 25 pounds of fish and water.
Rats multiply so quickly that in 18 months, two rats could have over 1 million descendents.
Folding money was invented by the Chinese, it was made of deerskin.
The U.S. mint in Denver, Colorado is the only mint that marks its pennies.
The human head is a quarter of our total length at birth, but only an eighth of our total length by the time we reach adulthood.
Bore-hole seismometry indicates that the land in Oklahoma moves up and down 25cm throughout the day, corresponding with the tides. Earth tides are generally about one-third the size of ocean tides.
There are ten times as many sheep as people in Australia.
54% of Americans fold toilet paper neatly. 35% wad it. What about the other 11%?
Nearly all boys grow at least as tall as their mothers.
Chimpanzees are the only animals that can recognize themselves in a mirror.
The Earth-Moon size ratio is the largest in our solar system, excepting Pluto-Charon.
By some estimates, there are about a million earthquakes a day, although most are too small to be felt by even the most sensitive.
An estimated one in five Americans (some 38 million don't like sex).
About 1000 Earths would fit inside Jupiter - and the Sun could hold about 1000 Jupiters.
The lips of a hippopotamus are nearly two feet wide.
People in Sweden, Japan, and Canada are more likely to know the population of the United States than are Americans.
A person could grow 600 complete eyelashes in a life time.
A hippo can open its mouth wide enough to fit a 4 foot tall child inside.
Ireland currently has the fastest growing economy in Europe - the economy grew by 40% from 1993-1997. It is for this reason that the country is referred to as the Celtic Tiger.
Dolphins and whales are mammals that don't drink water.
Scientists think the universe is 15 billion years old.
The chiao is an official unit of currency in China. Also known as jiao, it is a copper-zinc coin that is one-tenth of a yuan and equal to 10 fen.
In seahorses, it's the male who gives birth to the young.
The average person has over 1,460 dreams a year.
Water expands by about 10% as it freezes.
If a pinhead-size piece of the Sun were placed on Earth, one would have to stand as far as 145 kilometers (90 miles) away to be safe.
There are more people in New York City (7,895,563) than there are in the states of Alaska, Vermont, Wyoming, South Dakota, New Hampshire, Nevada, Idaho, Utah, Hawaii, Delaware, and New Mexico combined.
30 years ago: The computer mouse was invented.
In Brazil, Christmas is celebrated with fireworks.
The average American eats at McDonalds 1,811 times in their life.
The Earth weighs 6.6 sextillion tons, or 5.97 x 1024 kg.
There are more insects in a single square mile of fertile soil than there are people on the entire earth.
An ostrichs eye is bigger than it's brain.
A woodpecker can peck with a force as high as 1,200 g's with each impact - equivalent to a human striking head against a wall at a speed of 25km (16 miles) an hour each time.
Olympus Mons on Mars is the largest volcano in our solar system, almost three times taller than Mount Everest on Earth.
When snakes are born with two heads, they fight each other for food.
The Earth's average velocity orbiting the sun is 107,220 km per hour.
The female preying mantis initiates sex by ripping the males head off.
A hummingbirds heart beats 1,260 times per minute.
Despite a population of over a billion, China has only about 200 family names.
Nose prints are used to identify dogs, just like humans use finger prints!
Cockroaches can survive underwater for up to 15 minutes.
The three winter months in the southern hemisphere are June, July and August.
Surprisingly, there was a time that the Vatican owned shares of the Watergate complex in Washington DC, the Pan American building in Paris, and the Hilton hotel in Rome.
By raising your legs slowly and laying on your back, you can't sink in quicksand.
You shed and regrow your skin every 28 days, that's about 1000 times in a lifetime.
The sun is 330,330 times larger than the earth.
There are only three world capitals that begin with the letter 'O' in English: Ottawa, Canada; Oslo, Norway; and Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.
If you yelled for 8 years, 7 months and 6 days, you would have produced just enough sound energy to heat up one cup of coffee.
Absolutely pure gold is so soft that it can be moulded with the hands.
Dogs and cats, like humans, are either right of left handed or is that pawed?!
Snakes are true carnivorous because they eat nothing but other animals. They do not eat any type of plant material.
The Republic of San Marino is the world's smallest republic (24 sq. miles) and possibly the oldest state in Europe (founded 4th century AD, according to tradition.)
Armadillos can walk underwater.
A gallon of water weighs 8.34 pounds (3.8kg).
Sharks have no air bladders, so they must swim constantly or they'll sink.
The eyes of a giant squid can be up to 15 inches across the biggest in the world.
The average person laughs 13 times a day.
Hawaii is moving toward Japan 4 inches every year.
The North Atlantic gets 2.5 centimetres (1in) wider every year.
On average, our bodies constantly resist an atmospheric pressure of about 1 kilogram per square inch.
100 years ago: The first virus was found in both plants and animals.
There wasn't a single pony in the Pony Express, just horses!
Fleas can jump 130 times higher than their own height. In human terms, that's a 6ft tall person jumping 780 ft in the air.
Without any greenhouse effect, Earth would be cold and lifeless with an average temperature of 0.4 degrees Fahrenheit.
The number of neuron cells in our brain is more than the total number of stars in our galaxy.
From the age of thirty, humans gradually begin to shrink in size.
J.B Dunlop was first to put air into tires.
Since the 1930's the town of Corona, CA has buried, and lost, all 17 of its time capsules.
The largest painting on earth is a 72437 square foot smiley face.
The longest cells in the human body are the motor neurons. They can be up to 4.5 feet (1.37 meters) long and run from the lower spinal cord to the big toe.
A cat has a normal body temperature of 101.5. A dogs is 101.
Canada has more lakes than the rest of the world combined.
A leech can drink up to eight time its weight in blood at one sitting.
Hershey's Kisses are called that because the machine that makes them looks like it's kissing the conveyor belt.
5 years ago: The first successful cloning of human embryo
The Golden 'Poison Dart' frog in South America is most poisonous vertebrate in the world.
Millie the White House dog earned more than 4 times as much as President Bush in 1991.
The cow has four stomachs, as most ruminant mammals do.
The human brain is 75% water.
The oldest Holiday Inn is in Clarkesdale.
A group of geese on the ground is a gaggle, a group of geese in the air is a skein.
The world's largest amphibian is the giant salamander. It can grow up to 5 ft. in length.
Alaska is the only state without a state motto.
Hydrogen is the most abundant element in the Universe (75%).
The male gypsy moth can smell the virgin female gypsy moth from 1.8 miles away.
The largest frog in the world is The Goliath Frog of Gabon in West Africa and can grow as big as 33cm long and up to 3kg heavy.
Shark's teeth are literally as hard as steel.
Australia is the richest source of mineral sands in the world.
The twin towers of New Yorks World Trade Center contain 208 elevators. Elevators rank as the safest form of transportation, boasting only one fatality every 100 million miles traveled. Stairs, in comparison, are five times more dangerous.
The average garden variety caterpillar has 248 muscles in its head.
The amount of carbon in the human body is enough to fill about 9,000 'lead' pencils.
A flies taste buds are on its feet.
The most dangerous animal in the world is the common housefly. Because of their habits of visiting animal waste, they transmit more diseases than any other animal.
A parrots vocabulary is generally no more than 20 words.
The clouds on Venus are made of deadly sulfuric acid.
A car travelling at 80 km/h uses half its fuel to overcome wind resistance.
A bolt of lightning is about 54,000 degrees F (30,000 degrees C); six times hotter than the Sun.
Some species of Bamboo can grow at the rate of 1 metres in 24 hours.
The heaviest human brain ever recorded weighed 5 lb. 1.1 oz. (2.3 kg.).
Footprints astronauts make on the moon will remain for millions of years due to the fact that there is no wind to blow them away.
Six people can feast on one ostrich egg for breakfast.
One inch (2.5cm) of rain is equal to 10 inches (25cm) of snow.
A crocodile's tongue is attached to the roof of its mouth.
Goodyear rubber company researched and concluded that shoes wear out faster on the rightfoot than the left.
The world seahorse population has dropped 70% in the past 10 years.
Our eyes are always the same size from birth, but our nose and ears never stop growing.
Coca Cola was founded by Joseph A. Biedenharn in Vicksburg.
The moon is 27% the size of the Earth.
A giraffe can clean its ears with its 21-inch tongue.
A female african elephant can be pregnant for almost 2 years.
Armadillos get an average of 18.5 hours of sleep per day.
The embryos of tiger sharks fight each other while in their mother's womb, the survivor being the baby shark that is born.
A cat's jaws cannot move sideways.
The smallest bone in the human body is the stapes or stirrup bone located in the middle ear. It is approximately .11 inches (.28 cm) long.
The moon orbits the Earth every 27.32 days
The bark of the redwood tree is fireproof.
The Mississippi Legislature passed one of the first laws in 1839 to protect the property rights of married women.
Butterflies use their feet to taste things.
Tremendous erosion at the base of Niagara Falls (USA) undermines the shale cliffs and as a result the falls have receded approximately 7 miles over the last 10,000 years.
On international license plates Spain is represented by the letter E for Espana.
The United States has never lost a war in which mules were used.
Sterling silver contains 7.5% copper.
The most powerful laser in the world, the Nova laser at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, CA, USA, generates a pulse of energy equal to 100,000,000,000,000 watts of power for .000000001 second to a target the size of a grain of sand.
Healthy nails grow about 2 cm each year. Fingernails grow four times as fast as toenails.
There are more species of fish in Amazon river than in the entire Atlantic Ocean (Over 2,000).
A dwarf star is so dense that it would take 8 men to lift a teaspoon full of its matter.
Emus and kangaroos cannot walk backwards.
The peacock male is called a male and the female, a peahen.
Porcupines float in water.
One of Jupiter's moons is believed to grow and shrink because of the water beneath its frozen surface.
There are 3,900 islands in the country Japan, the country of islands.
One cord of wood can make 7 and a half million toothpicks.
Ice-cream cones were first served in 1904 at the worlds fair in St. Louis, MO. US Patent # 3,477,070.
A jellyfish is 95 percent water!
Lake Baikal is the deepest lake in the world.
Hummingbirds are the only animals able to fly backwards.
The North Atlantic gets 1 inch wider every year.
The circumference of the Earth at the equator is 24,896 miles.
The Dominican Republic was called Santo Domingo when it first gain independence.
MCW in Columbus was the first state college for women in the country established in 1884.
The elephant is the only animal with four knees.
The star Sirius B is so dense, a handful of it weighs about 454,000 kgs (1 million pounds.)
The forest of Canadian Lake District is so dense that during winter the snow stays on top of the trees and the forest floor stays bare.
The worlds biggest clam weighs almost 500 pounds.
Bird droppings are the chief export of Nauru, an island nation in the western Pacific.
A crocodile cannot stick out its tongue.
Most stars shine for at least 10 billion years.
The human body has enough fat to produce 7 bars of soap.
Sunlight takes about 8 minutes & 20 seconds to reach the Earth at 186,282 miles/sec (299,792 Km/sec).
The royal house of Saudi Arabia has close to 10,000 princes and princesses.
In one day an average person will take about 18,000 steps.
The normal energy used by our brain is 0.1 calories per minute, and could go up to 1.5 during activities such as puzzle-solving.
The world's largest democracy is India, with a much larger population than the United States and pretty good turn-out in elections, although it also has lots of election violence. Democracy is the fastest-spreading form of government worldwide.
Black ironwood tree, The world's densest wood, the Black Ironwood (Olea laurifolia), does not float on water and therefore sinks.
The largest city in Africa is Cairo in Egypt.
A goldfish (like most marine fish) can survive in a tank full of human blood.
The worlds largest flower is the Rafflesia arnoldi. It can grow to the size of an umbrella.
Super Glue was invented by accident. The researcher was trying to make optical coating materials, and would test their properties by putting them between two prisms and shining light through them. When he tried the cyano-acrylate, he couldn't get the prisms apart.
The earliest cockroach fossils are about 280 million years old.
Giraffes could pass out with blood filling their brain when they lower their neck, so they have a sponge-like organ in the head which slowly gathers and releases blood.
California condors can fly 10 miles without flapping their wings.
Saturn's moon Titan has hundreds of times more oil and natural gas than all the known reserves on Earth.
A car traveling at 80 km/h uses half its fuel to overcome wind resistance.
Sunlight can penetrate clean ocean water to a depth of 240 feet.
Gold and Copper are the only two non-white metals.
A hard working adult sweats up to 4 gallons per day. Most of the sweat evaporates before a person realizes it is there though!
A Boeing 707 uses four thousand gallons of fuel in its take-off climb.
Starfish have no brain.
There is enough fuel in a full tank of a jumbo jet to drive an average car around the world four times.
Resin Bowie, the inventor of the Bowie knife is buried at Pt. Gibson.
Porcupines float in water!
An ounce of gold can be stretched into a wire 80 kms (50 miles) long.
The life of an eyelash is about 5 months.
Baby robins eat 14 feet of earthworms every day.
The average American makes six trips to the bathroom every day; thats about 2 1/2 years of your life down the drain.
The DNA in a single human cell is 37 metres long when unravelled.
Given sufficient amounts of chocolate candies, pigs can master video game skills, and perform far better than dogs.
One acre of trees produces enough oxygen for 18 people every day.
The Virginia opossum has a gestation period of only 12-13 days.
Boron nitride (BN) is the second hardest substance known to man.
The female Tarantula Hawk wasp paralyzes a large spider with her sting. She then lays her eggs on the motionless body so that her developing young have a fresh supply of spider meat to feed on.
The first known contraceptive was crocodile dung used by ancient Egyptians in 2000 BC.
Female mosquitoes flap their wings nearly 500 times per second.
The U-S Park Service says the older Old Faithful gets, the more the geyser at Yellowstone National Park slows down. In the 1950s, it erupted every 62 minutes. Lately, it's been erupting every 77 minutes. Some experts say Old Faithful may someday just stop.
Thailand used to be called Siam.
An alligator may go through 2000 to 3000 teeth in a lifetime.
Starfish have eight eyes; one at the end of each leg.
When the Eiffel Tower was built in 1884, Parisians referred to it as 'the tragic lamppost' and nearly universally hated it.
A neutron star is the strongest magnet in the universe.
The blesbok, a South African antelope, is almost the same color as grapejuice.
Rats can swim for half a mile (0.8 km) without rest, and can tread water for three straight days.
There is a resort town in New Mexico called 'Truth or Consequences.'
Cats can hear ultrasound.
By the age of 75, the average American has created about 110,000 pounds of garbage.
The many sights that represent the Chinese city of Beijing were built by foreigners: the Forbidden City was built by the Mongols, the Temple of Heaven by the Manchurians.
The longest recorded flight of a chicken is 13 seconds.
Cats have over one hundred vocal sounds, while dogs only have about ten.
The national anthem of the Netherlands 'Het Wilhelmus,' is an 'acrostichon.' The first letters of each of the fifteen verses represent the name 'Willem Van Nassov.'
Every time you lick a stamp, you're consuming 1/10 of a calorie.
Flying from London to New York by Concord, due to the time zones crossed, you can arrive 2 hours before you leave.
The first ten feet of the ocean hold as much heat as the Earth's entire atmosphere.
A bucket full of water contains more atoms than there are bucketfuls of water in the Atlantic Ocean.
A dog can understand between 35 to 40 commands.
The oldest multicellular fossils date from ~700 million years ago.
There is enough fuel in a full tank of a Jumbo Jet to drive an average car four times around the world.
According to the World Heath Organization, there are approximately 100 million acts of sexual intercourse each day.
20 years ago: First test-tube baby born in England, Pluto's moon, Charon, discovered.
The Venus flytrap takes less than half a second to slam shut on an insect.
The surface area of the Earth is 197,000,000 square miles.
There are 60,000 miles (97,000 km) in blood vessels in every human.
Women blink nearly twice as much as men.
The longest living cells in the body are brain cells which can live an entire lifetime.
Fortune cookies were actually invented in America, in 1918, by Charles Jung!
Bulls are colorblind, therefore will usually charge at a matadors waving cape no matter what color it is be it red or neon yellow!
The largest telescope in the world is currently being constructed in northern Chile. The telescope will utilize four - 26 ft. 8 in. (8.13 meters) mirrors which will gather as much light as a single 52 ft. 6 in. (16 meters) mirror.
Everything weighs one percent less at the equator.
The sun is 93,000,000 miles from the earth.
Eighty-five percent of all the plants and animals live in the sea.
An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain.
A hummingbird weighs less than a penny.
The greatest tide change on earth occurs in the Bay of Fundy. The difference between low tide and high tide can be as great as 16.6 meters (54 ft.)
The waste produced by one chicken in its lifetime can supply enough electricity to run a 100 watt bulb for five hours.
The cosmos contains approximately 50,000,000,000 galaxies.
The little Alaskan Wood Frog is capable of reviving itself back to normal life after staying completely frozen for months, during which its heart, brain and other organs stop functioning.
Iowa has more independent telephone companies than any other state.
Earths oceans contain 7 1/2 million tons of gold, dissolved in the water.
Nepal's flag isn't rectangular. Or square. It's two triangles, sorta.
The acceleration rate of a flea's jump is 20 times that of a space shuttle during launch.
Ostriches stick their heads in the sand to look for water.
Every second, the Sun pumps more than a million tons of material into the space through the solar wind (electrically charged particles.)
The liver is the only organ able to regenerate itself completely.
The average person has 100,000 hairs on their head.
The praying mantis is the only insect that can turn its head!
The original fifty cent piece in Australian decimal currency had around $2.00 worth of silver in it before it was replaced with a less expensive twelve sided coin.
The hurricane plant has holes in its leaves, which keep it from being destroyed by wind.
For the first time, the number of pet cats in the US now outnumbers the number of dogs, 60 million vs. 50 million.
A hedgehogs heart beats 300 times a minute on average.
Shortest Intercontinental Commercial Flight in the world is from Gibraltar (Europe) to Tangier (Africa.) Distance 34 miles, flight time 20 minutes.
A shrimps heart is located in it's head.
Certain frogs that can survive the experience of being frozen.
Torontos original name was York, but it had another name long before that. The area near the shores of Lake Ontario was called 'the meeting place' by the Ojibway of Southern Ontario. Their word: Toronto.
Due to its size, Pluto's moon Charon is also considered to be a double dwarf planet (two planets orbiting each other), rather than a moon orbiting its planet.
Dynamite contains peanuts as an ingredient.
Every year in the US, 625 people are struck by lightning.
Rome is considered 'The Eternal City.'
An elephant trunk can hold two gallons of water.
The moon is one million times drier than the Gobi Desert.
West Virginia consists of those counties of Virginia which refused to secede from the Union at the start of the Civil War. Maine used to be part of Massachusetts. The original colonies made all kinds of land claims for the frontier west of them.
A dragonfly's first six months of life are spent underwater. After this time, it comes out of the water, sheds its outer skin, and starts flying, but if it falls in the water after it has shed its skin, it drowns.
Cows can smell odors six miles away.
Dogs and cats consume over $11 billion worth of pet food a year!
Mr. Peanut was invented in 1916 by a Suffolk, Virginia, schoolchild who won $5 in a design contest sponsored by Planters Peanuts.
Residents of the Havasupai Indian Reservation in Northern Arizona get their mail delivered by mule.
The greatest tide change on earth occurs in the Bay of Fundy. The difference between low tide and high tide can be as great as 54 ft. 6 in. (16.6 meters).
Elephants have been known to remain standing after they die.
Giraffes are unable to cough.
A newborn kangaroo is small enough to fit into a teaspoon.
The lowest temperature on Earth was -128.6 degrees F (-89.6 degrees C) in Antarctica in 1983.
Cheetah's can accelerate from 0 to 70 km/h in 3 seconds.
The center of the Sun is about 27 million degrees Fahrenheit (15 million degrees C).
An average adult human has skin weighing about 3 kilograms in total.
Alexander Graham Bell, who invented the telephone, also set a world water-speed record of over seventy miles an hour at the age of seventy two.
When opossums are playing opossum, they are not playing. They actually pass out from sheer terror.
Most people take an average of seven minutes to fall asleep.
The world's smallest rodent is Pygmy Jerboa - measuring only a couple of inches in length - and can run as fast as a horse.
The fastest computer in the world is the CRAY Y-MP C90 supercomputer. It has two gigabytes of central memory and 16 parallel central processor units.
The blue whale can produce the loudest sound produced by an animal - up to 188 decibels - and detected as far away as 853 kms (530mi).
The birthplace of Elvis was in Tupelo.
No matter its size or thickness, no piece of paper can be folded in half more than 7 times.
Flea's can jump 130 times higher than their own height. In human terms this is equal to a 6ft. person jumping 780 ft. into the air.
It's impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
Pineapple is actually a giant berry.
Nearly a third of all bottled drinking water purchased in the US is contaminated with bacteria.
Olympus Mons on Mars is the largest volcano in our solar system.
The longest recorded distance flown by any chicken is 301.5 feet (about 92 meters) in 13 seconds.
Although it is closest to the Sun, Mercury has ice in its craters.
Oxygen is the most abundant element in the Earth's crust, waters, and atmosphere (about 49.5%)
According to Playboy Magazine, 99% of all cat and dog owners talk to their pets.
The German Bundestag, or Parliament, has 672 members and is the world's largest elected legislative body.
The Sun contains over 99.8 percent of the total material (mass) in our solar system, while Jupiter contains most of the rest.
The energy given off by a hurricane in one day would power the entire U.S for three years.
As an adult, you have more than 20 square feet of skin on your body--about the same square footage as a blanket for a queen-sized bed.
The world's smallest frog - The Little Grass Frog - is no bigger than a house fly.
The Hubble Space Telescope weighs 12 tons (10,896 kilograms), is 43 feet (13.1 meters) long, and cost $2.1 billion to originally build.
Honeybees have a type of hair on their eyes!
The temperature in fahrenheit can be determined by counting the number of cricket chirps in 14 seconds and adding 40.
The largest eggs in the world are laid by a shark.
The burning sensation we get from chilli peppers is because of a chemical called Capsaicin.
Each time lightning strikes, some Ozone gas is produced, thus strengthening the Ozone Layer in the Earth's atmosphere.
Mercury is the only metal that is liquid at room temperature.
The Earth is the densest planet in the solar system.
The first coast-to-coast telephone line was established in 1914.
Owls are one of the only birds who can see the color blue.
Mexico City is sinking at a rate of 18 inches per year as a result of draining the water table for human consumption.
Sound travels about 4 times faster in water than in air.
An inch (2.5 centimeters) of rain water is equivalent to 15 inches (38.1 centimeters) of dry, powdery snow.
Most lipstick contains fish scales!
Los Angeles and San Francisco become 2.5 inches closer together each year because they are on opposite sides of the San Andreas fault.
Uranus is tipped on its side so that one pole is pointed at the Sun, so its poles are warmer than its equator.
50 years ago: Velcro was invented.
At 840,000 square miles, Greenland is the largest island in the world. It is 3 times the size of Texas. By comparison Iceland is only 39,800 square miles.
According to an old English system of time units, a moment is one and a half minutes.
Ants do not sleep.
A rubber tire is actually one single giant molecule.
Since 1959, more than 6,000 pieces of 'space junk' (abandoned rocket and satellite parts) have fallen out of orbit - many of these have hit the earth's surface.
On average, 100 people choke to death on ballpoint pens every year.
The only borough of New York City that isn't an island or part of an island is the Bronx.
Lightning strikes about 6,000 times per minute on our planet.
Crux is the smallest of modern constellations, with only 4 bright stars.
Knowledge is growing so fast that ninety per cent of what we will know in fifty years time, will be discovered in those fifty years.
In a full grown rye plant, the total length of roots may reach 380 miles (613 km).
The average American/Canadian drinks about 600 sodas a year!
Zion, Illinois - located on the shores of Lake Michigan north of Chicago - was founded by the followers of John Alexander Dowie, whose Christian Catholic Church disapproved of pharmacies, doctors, theaters or dance halls. Smoking, drinking and the eating of pork also was prohibited in town.
The starfish species, Porcellanaster ivanovi, has been found to live in water as deep as 24,881 feet (7,584 meters).
England is smaller than New England.
The distance between an alligators eyes, in inches, is directly proportional to the length of the alligator in feet.
The highest temperature on Earth was 136 degrees F (58 degrees C) in Libya in 1922.
A cockroach will live nine days without it's head before it starves to death.
The catfish has over 27,000 taste buds, that makes the catfish rank #1 for an animal having the most taste buds.
Jupiter's core is non-metal, but due to the immense pressure inside Jupiter, the core has become a metal. This metal is liquid metallic hydrogen.
If you could cut out the United States, its center of gravity would be at Friend, Nebraska.
The full moon always rises at sunset and sets at sunrise.
The Philippines consist of 7,100 islands.
90 years ago: The Grand Canyon became a national monument & Cellophane is invented.
An anteater sticks its tongue in and out 100 times per minute to slurp up its food.
Desperate to increase veggie intake among children in Britain, researchers have developed chocolate-flavored carrots, pizza-flavored corn and baked-bean-flavored peas.
The animal with the largest brain in relation to its body is the ant.
The largest lake in South America is Lake Maracaibo.
In a 1-life-time average person will spend 24 years sleeping.
Seventy percent of the dust in your home consists of shed human skin
A starfish can turn its stomach inside out.
The worlds termites outweigh the worlds humans 10 to 1!
More types of fish swim in Brazils Amazon River than in the entire Alantic Ocean.
An eagle can kill a young deer and fly away with it.
In ancient Japan public contests were held to see who in a town could break wind loudest and longest. Winners were awarded many prizes and received great acclaim.
A day on Mercury, from sunrise to sunset, lasts about six Earth months.
An average adult body contains around 250g (1/2lb) of salt.
The Earth's equatorial circumference (40,075 km) is greater than its polar circumference (40,008 km).
The rocket engine has to supply its own oxygen so it can burn its fuel in outer space.
Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 90% of the human body.
Gorillas stick their tongues out when angry.
Only the female mosquito bites, the male does not.
Pennsylvania has more covered bridges than any other state. Vermont, a much smaller state, claims a greater density of covered bridges. (More bridges per square mile). Parke County, Indiana, claims more covered bridges than any other county, but Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, comes in second.
A large swarm of desert locusts (Schistocerca gregaria) can consume 20,000 tons (18,160,000 kilograms) of vegetation a day.
Zanzibar is known as 'Spice Island.'
Jupiter is so big that twice the mass of the rest of our Solar System's planets combined would still not be enough to equal its mass.
Slugs have 4 noses.
The Sun shrinks in diameter by 5 feet every hour.
When hydrogen burns in the air, water is formed.
Flamingos lay their eggs on top of volcano-shaped nests made of mud.
On a clear day, a beam of sunlight can be reflected off a mirror and seen up to 40km away.
40% of prescripition drugs dispensed in the U.S. have active ingredients derived from plants, animals or microorganisms, many of them from forests.
A worm is both male and female at the same time (a hermaphrodite.)
Some yaks milk is pink.
Hawaii is moving toward Japan 10 centimetres (4 inches) every year.
The poison arrow frogs of South and Central America are the most poisonous animals in the world.
The right lung takes in more air than the left.
The Sahara desert is expanding half a mile south every year.
The brain uses more than 25% of the oxygen used by the human body.
The Chang Jiang river is the fourth longest river in the world.
A single large tree can release up to 400 gallons of water into the atmosphere each day.
95% of all animals are invertebrates (without a backbone or spinal column).
The Methuselah tree in California, USA, is the oldest living organism (4,800 years old) known today.
In 1825 Upper Peru became Bolivia.
The fungus Cordyceps is able to 'mind-control' other insects like ants to climb plants and attach there to become its food.
On a trip to the South Sea islands, French painter Paul Gauguin stopped off briefly in Central America, where he worked as a laborer on the Panama Canal.
The most poisonous snake in the world is Belcher's Sea Snake or the Faint-banded Sea Snake (Hydrophis belcheri).
On Uranus, each pole gets around 42 years of continuous sunlight, followed by 42 years of darkness.
Portugal is the world's largest producer of cork. The country has regulations protecting cork trees dating back to 1320. During the 1920's and 30's, it became illegal to cut down the trees other than for essential thinning and removal of old non-producing trees.
If you slowly pour a handful of salt into a totally full glass of water it will not overflow. In fact, the water level will go down.
Chewing gum was invented by a dentist, named William Semple - as a way to exercise your jaws.
Lightning strikes about 6,000 times per minute on this planet.
Rafflesia flowers attract pollinating flies by looking and smelling like rotten meat.
The heaviest dog on record was a St. Bernard weighing 310 lbs.
Moths have no stomach.
Despite the hump, a camel's spine is straight.
The city of Istanbul straddles two separate continents, Europe and Asia.
F:Most people take an average of seven minutes to fall asleep.
The pressure at the centre of the Earth is 27,000 tons per square inch.
On an average, most people blink about 15,000 times in a 16-hour day (awake.)
Montpelier, Vermont is the only U.S. state capital without a McDonald's.
Every minute, 30-40,000 dead skin cells fall from your body.
The word 'condom' comes from Dr. Charles Condom (1630-1685)
Only five countries in Europe touch only one other: Portugal, Denmark, San Marino, Vatican City, and Monaco.
An iguana always lands on its feet.
DNA unravels at 7000 RPM (revolutions per minute).
Armadillos, opossums, and sloth's spend about 80% of their lives sleeping.
White dwarf stars can be as small as 1,000 miles across.
A cosmic year is the amount of time it takes the Sun to revolve around the center of the Milky Way, about 225 million years.
On male shirts the buttons are on the right side, on female shirts the left side. This is due to wealthy women using slaves many years ago to dress them. The buttons were on the right side to the slaves who buttoned up the shirts.
Muscles in the human body (640 in total) make up about half of the body weight.
There are more living organisms on the skin of a single human being than there are human beings on the surface of the earth.
Which of the 50 states has never had an earthquake? North Dakota.
The exact geographic center of the United States is near Lebanon, Kansas.
Liquid air looks like water with a bluish tint.
Rain falls at an average speed of 22 mph.
The human body has less muscles in it than a caterpillar.
The Skylab astronauts grew 1.5 - 2.25 inches (3.8 - 5.7 centimeters) due to spinal lengthening and straightening as a result of zero gravity.
In Calama, a town in the Atacama Desert of Chile, it has never rained.
Bats always turn left when exiting a cave.
Lobsters have blue blood.
The average person has 100,000 hairs on his/her head. Each hair grows about 5 inches (12.7 cm) every year.
Pluto is no longer considered a planet. It is now known as a 'Dwarf Planet'.
Newfoundland's time zone is half an hour off of all the others. So are Iran's, bits of India's, Afghanistan's, Burma's, and Nauru's. And some other islands. Like Australia.
The average human produces a quart of saliva a day -- about 10,000 gallons in a lifetime
The lightest organ in the human body is the lung.
80 years ago: The food mixer and the domestic refrigerator were invented.
A person would die if all of the toxic ingredients of one cigarette were directly injected into the bloodstream.
The adult heart pumps about 7,500 litres of blood every day.
The noble gas Xenon lasers can cut through materials that are so tough even diamond tipped blades will not cut.
Just twenty seconds worth of fuel remained when Apollo 11's lunar module landed on the moon.
On average, Elephants sleep for about 2 hours per day.
Mosquitos have teeth.
The Pistol Star is the most luminous star known - 10 million times the power of the Sun and as big as the size of Earth's entire orbit around the Sun.
The smallest country in Central America is El Salvador.
Interstellar space is not complete vacuum: there are a few hydrogen atoms per cubic centimeter.
The pupil of an octopus' eye is rectangular.
Earthworms have 5 hearts.
Since Neptune's discovery in 1846, it has made just about three-quarters of one revolution around the Sun.
More people use blue toothbrushes than red ones.
Earth is the only planet not named after a Roman or Greek god.
The average ocean floor is 12,000 feet.
Some lions mate over 50 times a day.
Most people blink about 17,000 times a day.
The ant can lift 50 times its own weight, and can pull 30 times its own weight.
The oldest known fossil is of a single-celled organism, blue-green algae, found in 3.2 billion year-old stones in South Africa.
It is estimated that a plastic container can resist decomposition for as long as 50,000 years.
The acid in a persons stomach is corrosive enough to melt iron.
The surface speed record on the moon is 10.56 miles per hour. It was set with the lunar rover.
The surface area of a human lung is equal to that of a tennis court.
Reversing Falls is in Canada, where the St. John River flows into the Bay of Fundy at St. John, New Brunswick. The rapids at this juncture flows normally at low tide, backwards at high tide. Between tides there is a 15-minute period in which the river is placid and boaters sail by very quickly.
Men have more blood in their circulatory system than women and more red blood cells.
Female aristocrats on the island of Portugese Timor in Malaya, indicate their status by notching their ears.
A fish never closes its eyes.
Dirty snow melts faster than white snow because it is darker and absorbs more heat.
The largest island in the Mediterranean sea is Sicily.
The Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel - which crossing Chesapeake near its mouth, at Norfolk, Virginia - uses a combination of bridge spans and tunnels. Manmade islands allow the roadway to enter the tunnels beneath the Bay's shipping channels.
Bananas are actually giant herbs - related to the orchid family.
Giraffes have no vocal chords.
Honey does not spoil.
A single bacteria cell, given all the food it needs, could divide into a ball of cells the size of the Earth in 24 hours.
Pittsburgh was named for a British prime minister.
An alligator can supposedly wolf down an eight pound chicken in one gulp.
An iguana can stay under water for twenty-eight minutes.
Mount St. Helens dropped 1,313 feet in 1980.
The Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. has 365 steps, representing every day of the year.
The largest iceberg ever found was 208 miles long and 60 miles wide. That is bigger than Massachusetts.
Adolf Hitler had planned to change the name of Berlin to Germania.
Minus 40 degrees Celsius is exactly the same temperature as minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
It is energy-efficient to turn off a fluorescent light only if it will not be used again within an hour or more. This is because of the high voltage needed to turn it on, and the shortened life this high voltage causes.
In an average lifetime a person will walk the equivilant of three times around the world.
China's largest city is Shanghai.
Giraffes have the same number of neck bones as humans: seven.
Good news for skunk lovers- an Illinois company is now manufacturing Eau de Pew a perfume created from diluted skunk scent.
The Roller Coaster was invented in the 17th century in Russia.
Mongolia is the largest landlocked country.
A neutron star has such density that a teaspoonful of its matter would weigh more than all the people on Earth.
In Papua New Guinea there are villages within five miles of each other which speak different languages.
The country of Costa Rica does not have an army.
The Horseshoe crab has blue blood.
While we're awake, our brain generates enough power to illuminate a light bulb of 25 watts.
In the course of a lifetime the average person will grow 2 meters of nose hair.
Human jaw muscles can generate a force of 200 pounds (90.8 kilograms) on the molars.
The world's termites outweigh the world's humans 10 to 1.
93% of a water melon is water.
The electric chair was invented by a dentist!Did you know that there are 206 bones in the adult human body and there are 300 in children (as they grow some of the bones fuse together).
Its impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
The Stegosaurus dinosaur measured up to 30 feet (9.1 meters) long but had a brain the size of a walnut.
If you could drive to the sun -- at 55 miles per hour -- it would take about 193 years
Arguably the largest state in the world, Western Australia covers one-third of the Australian continent. It spans over 2.5 million square kilometers (1 million square miles).
A toothpick is the object most often choked on by Americans!
An Astronaut can be up to 2 inches taller returning from space. The cartilage disks in the spine expand in the absence of gravity.
The official, neutral name of Switzerland, which has multiple official languages, is the latin 'Confederation Helvetica', or the Helvetic Confederation, thus the 'CH' on license plates, stickers and e-mail addresses.
Saturn isn't the only planet with rings: Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune have them, too.
When the queen of a clownfish school dies, a male clownfish changes its gender to become female and takes her place.
Penguins can jump as high as 6 feet in the air.
The giraffe is one of the quietest animals: it has no vocal chords to make any noise.
After bananas, a zoo gorillas favorite food is celery.
A large sunspot can last for about a week.
The sloth moves so slowly that green algae can grow undisturbed on it is fur!
Bees flap their wings 300 times a second.
A kind of jellyfish (Turritopsis nutricula) upon reaching adulthood can transform itself back to childhood by converting its cells. It may repeat this to live forever.
When you blush, your stomach lining also reddens.
If a pulsar's (small star made up of densely packed neutrons) piece the size of a small coin landed on Earth, it would weigh approximately 100 million tons.
A squirrel lives about 9 years.
Scientists have discovered that copper pollution of the atmosphere occurred about 2500 years ago. This was discovered by analyzing ice cores from Greenland. The pollution was attributed to the Romans who used copper for military purposes and to produce coins.
Over 1000 birds a year die from smashing into windows.
Persia changed its name to Iran in 1935.
If a person or an animal is born colorblind, they instantly have excellent night vision.
Cartoonist Rick London (London's Times) is from Lumberton.
The Brazilian 'railroad worm' has a head that glows with a red light, and has a green light on its side.
The planet Saturn has a density lower than water. So, if placed in water it would float.
70 years ago: The teletype and PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) were invented.
Muscles are made up of bundles from about 5 in the eyelid to about 200 in the buttock muscle.
More than 20,000,000 seahorses are harvested each year for folk medicinal purposes.
The human heart has enough pressure to squirt blood up to 30 feet away.
A stroke of lightning discharges from 10 to 100 million volts & 30,000 amperes of electricity.
The original name for the butterfly was flutterby!
There are more psycho-analysts per capita in Buenos Aires than any other place in the world.
20/20 vision means the eye can see normally at 20 feet. 20/15 is better; the eye can see at 20 feet what another eye sees at 15 feet.
A cow can give 100 quarts of milk per week.
The most popular name for a male cat is Tiger and female Samantha.
The average caterpillar has 2000 muscles. The average human has 700.
The placement of a donkeys eyes in its heads enables it to see all four feet at all times!
Antarctica is the only continent that does not have land areas below sea level.
Ellis Island opened to begin the processing of what would amount to more than 20 million immigrants to the United States in 1892. The immigration center was also used as a deportation station, and later, a Coast Guard Station, and then, a national park. Ellis Island is now a museum.
Thirty-five percent of the people who use personal ads for dating are already married.
The planet Venus does not tilt as it goes around the Sun, so consequently, it has no seasons.
The sun is about 149 million kms (93 million miles) from earth, yet it's 270,000 times closer than the next nearest star, which is 4.3 light years away.
In the Andes, time is often measured by how long it takes to smoke a cigarette.
A mosquito has 47 teeth.
The smallest state in the US has also the longest name. The official name of Rhode Island is Rhode Island and Plantation Provinces.
In downtown Lima, Peru, there is a large brass statue dedicated to Winnie-the-Pooh.
The typewriter was invented in 1829, and the automatic dishwasher in 1889.
South Africa produces two-thirds of the world's gold.
Thomas Edison, light bulb inventor, was afraid of the dark.
Babies are born far sighted - their eyes start to focus properly between 3 to 6 months of age.
The tongue of a blue whale is bigger than a taxi cab, and can weigh as much as an elephant.
If all major forms of cardiovascular disease were eliminated, human life expectance would increase by 9.78 years.
Given their sheer volume, ninety-nine percent of the living space on the planet is found in the oceans. The average depth of the oceans is 2.5 miles (4 km). The deepest point lies in the Mariana Trench, 6.8 miles (10.9 km) down. By way of comparison, Mount Everest is only 5.5 miles (8.8 km) high.
The mass of our entire atmosphere is estimated to be some 5.5 quadrillion tons (55 followed by 14 zeros).
All the moons of the Solar System are named after Greek and Roman mythology, except the moons of Uranus, which are named after Shakesperean charcters.
If you take one pound of cob webs and spread them out in one straight line, it will go around the earth 2 times.
Kangaroos can't walk backwards.
A teaspoonful of soil may contain 100 million bacteria.
Voyager 1 spacecraft is the farthest human-made object in the universe.
The only domestic animal that wasn't mentioned in the bible is a cat.
The average caterpillar has 16 legs.
Sea otters have 2 coats of fur.
The Reticulated Pythons are the world's longest snake and also the longest reptile.
Right handed people live, on average, nine years longer than left handed people do.
Since the successful launch of space shuttle Columbia on mission STS-90 there have been more crickets in space than humans.
Mars is red because its soil is very rusty (iron oxide.)
Gallium is a metal which melts on palm of the hand, due to its low melting point (29.76 Celsius).
The tongue of a blue whale weighs more than most elephants.
Natural gas has no odour. The smell is added artificially so that leaks can be detected.
The Sun is 330,330 times larger than Earth.
Belzoni is the Catfish Capital of the world.
Horses can sleep standing up.
Men can read smaller print than women; women can hear better.
Frogs eat their skin after they shed it.
In the 1800s an Eggplant was known as a mad apple and believed to be poisonous.
The longest recorded flight of a chicken is thirteen seconds
10 years ago: First patent for a genetically-engineered mouse was issued to Harvard Medical School.
The Earth weighs around 6,588,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 tons.
The biggest egg in the world is the ostrich egg. It could take as many as 30 chicken eggs to equal its volume, and up to 2 hours to hard boil.
In New Zealand, the Presidential highway links the towns of Gore and Clinton. Gore is also known as the Brown Trout Capital of the World and New Zealand's country music capital.
The lighter was invented before the match (in 1816 by J.W. Dobereiner).
A day on the planet Mercury is twice as long as its year. Mercury rotates very slowly but revolves around the Sun in slightly less than 88 days.
Smartest dogs: 1) border collie; 2)poodle; 3)golden retriever; Dumbest dog: Afghan
The smallest 'country' in the world to have its own top-level domain name is Norfolk Island, off the coast of Australia.
The human brain is 80% water.
In your lifetime, you'll shed over 40 pounds of skin.
Murphys Oil Soap is the chemical most commonly used to clean elephants.
The Galileo spacecraft traveled to Jupiter at a speed of 107,000 mph; fast enough to cross the U.S. in 85 seconds.
The temperature can be determined by counting the number of cricket chirps in fourteen seconds and adding 40.
Io, a moon of jupiter, has the most active volcanoes in the solar system.
There is a prison in Ossining, New York named 'Sing Sing.'
Hydrogen gas is the least dense substance.
The McCoy Federal Building in Jackson is the first federal building in the U.S. named for an African American.
A banana is about 75 percent water.
If you shrunk a car to the size of a roach, the roach could outrun the car. Roaches can run about 200 scale miles per hour.
House flies have a lifespan of two weeks.
The lightning bolt is 3 times hotter than the sun.
There are between 100,000,000,000 and 1,000,000,000,000 stars in a normal galaxy.
When you get goosebumps and your hair stands, the hair helps to trap air, making you feel warmer by keeping in your body heat.
The average person will swallow 295 times while eating.
Mexico City is sinking at a rate of 18 inches (46cm) per year as a result of draining water.
La Paz, the capital city of Bolivia is the highest capital in the world. Ski resorts there operate only on weekends during the South American summer (November to March). At an elevation of over 17,000 feet, it is too cold to operate during the South American winter.
Velcro was invented by a Swiss guy who was inspired by the way burrs attached to clothing.
An estimated 6,000 American teenagers lose their virginity every day.
The average adult male shaves off 1 lb of beard per year.
The only letter not appearing on the Periodic Table is the letter 'J'.
3000 of every 3001 calico kittens are female.
Armadillos spend about 80% of their lives asleep.
At 90 below zero your breath will freeze in mid-air and fall to the ground.
Fish are the only vertebrates that outnumber birds.
A U.S. backed government study found that pigs can become alcoholics.
Your brain is capable of storing more than 100 billion bits of information.
Polar bears are left handed.
A large woodpecker can peck as fast as 20 times a second and up to 12,000 times a day.
US Route 66 ran from Chicago to Los Angeles, approximating the course of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe, a railroad which, we might mention, no longer goes to any of those three towns.
Sharks are immune to cancer.
St. Petersburg, FL once had 427 consecutive days of sunshine.
One acre of trees absorbs enough carbon dioxide per year to match that emitted by driving a car 26,000 miles.
Most cows give more milk when they listen to music.
Researchers recently sprouted a lotus seed known to be 1,288 years old, making it the oldest seed ever germinated.
The Earth gets 100 tons heavier every day due to falling space dust.
John Stetson learned hatmaking in Dunn's Falls.
One ragweed plant can release as many as one billion grains of pollen.
There are no poisonous snakes in Maine.
Flamingos can only eat with their head upside down.
Spotted skunks do handstands before they spray.
It is estimated that millions of trees in the world are accidentally planted by squirrels who bury nuts and then forget where they hid them.
The star Alpha Herculis is so big that 25 of our entire solar system would have to be placed end to end to equal the star's diameter.
The average American spends six months at red lights throughout his or her life.
It takes 70% less energy to produce a ton of paper from recycled paper than from trees.
The Sun travels at a speed of 250km (155 miles) per second, but it still takes 230 million years for it to complete a single revolution of the galaxy.
When glass breaks, the cracks move at speeds of more than 4,500 km/h (3,000 miles).
It takes approximately 12 hours for food to entirely digest.
A camel has a straight spine, despite its hump!
The Nile river flows North.
Morocco was the first country to recognize the United States in 1789.
The honey bee is the only bee that dies after stinging.
There is a canyon on Mars that would stretch from New York to San Francisco.
If your mouth was completely dry, you would not be able to distinguish the taste of anything.
There are more Irish in New York City than in Dublin, Ireland; more Italians in New York City than in Rome, Italy; and more Jews in New York City than in Tel Aviv, Israel.
The wristwatch was invented in 1904 by Louis Cartier.
Diamonds are the hardest known substance.
A giraffe's neck contains the same number of vertebrae as a human.
With more than 80,000 arms, the Basket Starfish has the greatest number of arms.
The King and Queen of the Gypsies are buried in Rose Hill Cemetery in Meridian.
Starfish don't have brains.
An Elephant is not afraid of a mouse.
There are more bacteria and microbes in our body than actual cells that make up the body.
The amount of water beneath our ground soil is 50 times as much as all the water in the rivers and lakes combined.
The seeds of an Indian Lotus tree remain viable for 300 to 400 years.
The smallest island with country status is Pitcairn in Polynesia, at just 1.75 sq. miles/4,53 sq. km.
When glass breaks, the cracks move at speeds of up to 3,000 miles per hour.
The canopy of a rainforest is so thick, only one percent of sunlight reaches the ground.
Sunlight can penetrate clean ocean water to a depth of 73 meters (240ft.)
The first electronic digital computer (called ENIAC - the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Calculator) was developed in 1946 and contained over 18,000 vacuum tubes.
The leg bones of a bat are so thin that no bat can walk.
60 years ago: Otto Hahn discovered nuclear fission by splitting uranium, Teflon was invented.
The star 'Lucy' in constellation Centaurus is actually a huge cosmic diamond of 10 billion trillion trillion carats.
Samuel Morse, the inventor of the morse code, was a painter as well. One of his portraits is of the first governor of Arkansas and hangs in the governors mansion of that state.
Dogs sweat through their paw pads.
The largest known star Canis Majoris is so big that if our Sun were a ball 117 centimeters in diameter, Canis Majoris would be 2.25 kilometers.
In Tokyo, they sell toupees for dogs.
Everest in ocean at Mariana TrenchIf Mount Everest were placed at the bottom of the deepest part of the ocean, its peak would still be a mile underwater.
The nerves in our body are most concentrated in our fingertips.
Australia's new parliament house in the nation's capital Canberra is one of the largest buildings in the southern hemisphere. The building covers nearly 15 per cent of a 32 hectare site and boasts 4500 rooms. Its floor space is approximately 250,000 square meters.
15 million blood cells are produced and destroyed in the human body every second.
A cockroach can live for several weeks without its head.
US Patent number 3,593,345 was granted for the 'Whisper Seat', a toilet seat with a soundproof lining so that noise won't be heard by others.
Spains biggest source of income is tourism.
Hot water freezes quicker than cold water.
The electric eel of South America (Electrophorus electricus) can generate over 600 volts, and can paralyze even a horse.
Lake BaikalLake Baikal in Russia contains more water than all the North American Great Lakes combined.
A cat has 32 muscles in each ear.
A cows sweat glands are in it is nose.
If you weighed all the earthworms in the US, they wouldd be about 55 times heavier than the combined weight of all Americans.
The largest flying animal was the pterosaur which lived 70 million years ago. This reptile had a wing span of 36-39 feet (11-11.9 meters) and weighed 190-250 pounds (86-113.5 kilograms).
Your blood vessels, if laid end to end, would encircle the globe twice over.
The planet Venus has the longest day.
Did you know that you are more likely to be killed by a champagne cork than a by a poisonous spider?
At the ocean's deepest point, due to immense pressure, an iron ball would take more than an hour to sink to the ocean floor.
An Octopus has three hearts.
The Giant Burrowing Frog doesn't croak. It hoots like an owl.
How many times can a woodpecker peck? 20 Times a second.
Honolulu boasts the only royal palace in the U.S.
When asked to name a color, 3 out of 5 people will say red.
Only female mosquitoes bite people.
Human thigh bones are stronger than concrete.
The Sphinx sits on guard over the Great Pyramids.
More than 20 million meteroids enter Earths atmosphere every day. Most are no bigger than a speck of dust.
Made up of billions of pieces of ice, the average thickness of each of Saturn's seven giant rings only ranges from about 200 to 3000 meters.
The deepest part of the ocean is 35,813 feet (10,916 meters) deep and occurs in the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean. At that depth the pressure is 18,000 pounds (9172 kilograms) per square inch.
The average ocean floor is about 3,600 meters deep (12000ft).
The metal with the highest melting point is tungsten, at 3410 degrees Celcius (6170F).
A living tree never stops growing.
There are about 10,000 taste buds on the average human tongue.
Tigers have striped skin, not just striped fur.
The blue whale can produce sounds up to 188 decibels. This is the loudest sound produced by a living animal and has been detected as far away as 530 miles.
Everyone's tongue print is different.
Over 2,500 left handed people a year are killed from using products made for right handed people.
Only male turkeys (Toms) gobble, females make a clicking noise.
A lobster can lay up to 150,000 eggs at one time.
The oldest and largest clearly visible meteorite crater site in the world is The Vredefort Dome in Free State, South Africa. It is 380km across.
The largest country in Africa is the Sudan. The Arc of the Covenant is said to be located in Axum, Ethiopia.
Dominica, Mexico, Zambia, Kiribati, Fiji and Egypt all have birds on their flags.
A crocodile always grows new teeth to replace the old teeth.
Guam has seven public elementary schools.
Tuna swim an average of 9 mph constantly. They never stop moving.
Men are 6 times more likely to be struck by lighting than women!
Only humans sleep on their backs.
In space, astronauts cannot cry, because there is no gravity, so the tears can't flow!
Shrimp's heart is in its head.
Cats can make over 1,000 different vocal sounds, and dogs can make only about 10.
Sheeps, goats and the octopus have almost rectangular-oval pupils in their eyes.
Peavey Electronics in Meridian is the world's largest manufacturer of musical amplification equipment.
A bee sting is acidic and a wasp sting is alkali. To treat a sting by one of these you should use the opposite type of chemical.
The Toilet Lid Lock, to prevent unauthorized access to the toilet.
Turtles and sea cucumbers can breathe through their butts.
Cats urine glows under a black-light!
Hydrofluoric acid will dissolve glass.
Diamonds are the hardest substance known to man.
The state of Oregon has one city named Sisters and another called Brothers. Sisters got its name from a nearby trio of peaks in the Cascade Mountains known as the Three Sisters. Brothers was named as a counterpart to Sisters.
The diameter of a proton is approximately 0.000000000001 mm (1/25,000,000,000,000 inch).
The common goldfish is the only animal that can see both infra-red and ultra-violet light.
In a full grown rye plant, the total length of fine root hairs may reach 6600 miles (10,645 km).
If you could throw a snowball fast enough, it would totally vaporize when it hit a brick wall.
Dolphins sleep with one eye open.
In 10 minutes, a hurricane releases more energy than all the worlds nuclear weapons combined.
On average, people spend more than five years of their lives dreaming.
Football great Walter Peyton was from Columbia.
Chimps are the only animals that can recognize themselves in a mirror.
Skylab, the first American space station, fell to the earth in thousands of pieces in 1979. Thankfully most over the ocean.
Norway contains the largest icefield in Europe.
The smallest planet in our solar system is Pluto (now called 'dwarf planet' and not a true planet.)
The San Blas Indian women of Panama consider giant noses a mark of great beauty. They paint black lines down the center of their noses to make them appear longer.
Due to gravitational effects, you weigh slightly less when the moon is directly overhead.
The flea can jump 350 times its body length, that is like human jumping the length of about 7 football fields.
A diamond is the hardest natural substance.
Dogs can hear sounds that you cant.
The average iceberg weighs 20,000,000 tons!
The ant can lift things 10 times its own weight.
The Atlantic Giant Squid's eye can be as large as 15.75 inches (40 centimeters) wide.
A car traveling 100 mph would take more than 29 million years to reach the nearest star.
The International Checkers Hall Of Fame is in Petal.
5,865,696,000,000 The amount of miles in a light year.
On average, humans have 9,000 taste buds in their mouths, tongues, and throats.
Several nations (Norway, Australia, New Zealand, France, Great Britain, Chile, and Argentina) have advanced claims on sections of the continent of Antarctica. The United States does not recognize any claims.
The volume of water in the Amazon river is greater than the next eight largest rivers in the world combined.
95% of all the animal species on the earth are insects.
The United States consumes 25% of all the world's energy.
The largest cave in the world (the Sarawak Chamber in Malaysia) is 2,300 feet (701 meters) long, 980 feet (299 meters) wide, and more than 230 feet (70 meters) high.
Turkeys will peck to death members of the flock that are physically inferior or different.
The speed of light - 299 million meters a second - would still take about 26 billion years to reach one end of the visible universe to the other.
You can figure out which way is south if you are near a tree stump. The growth rings are wider on the south side.
Hydrogen can be a metal, but it is only in a solid state under extreme conditions such as being in the core of Jupiter!
The Vicksburg National Cemetery is the second oldest in the country.
There is a high and low tide because of our moon and the Sun.
If global warming forecasts are true, the island country of Tuvalu might cease to exist within 100 years.
Lake BaikalLake Baikal is the deepest lake in the world.
The housefly hums in the middle octave, key of F
The largest meteorite crater in the world is in Winslow, Arizona. It is 4,150 feet across and 150 feet deep.
Camels have three eyelids to protect themselves from blowing sand.
1 inch (25mm) of rain water is equivalent to 15 inches (381mm) of dry, powdery snow.
The 4-H Club started in Holmes County.
It is possible to lead a cow upstairs but not downstairs, because cows knees can't bend properly to walk back down.
The largest of modern constellations is Hydra.
Genghis Khans cavalry rode female horses so soldiers could drink their milk.
Mississippi was the first state to outlaw imprisonment of debtors.
According to experts, large caves tend to 'breathe'; they inhale and exhale great quantities of air when the barometric pressure on the surface changes, and air rushes in or out seeking equilibrium.
Elephants can hear through their feet.
In May 1948, Mt. Ruapehu and Mt. Ngauruhoe, both in New Zealand, erupted simultaneously.
The ostrich yolk is the largest single cell in the world.
Hummingbirds can't walk.
Only one person in two billion will live to be 116 or older.
The smallest island with country status is Pitcairn in Polynesia, at just 1.75 sq miles/4,53 sq km.
A lobster has a sense of smell about 1000 times keener than a human.
The human body contains about six-thousand miles of blood vessels.
The largest man-made lake in the U.S. is Lake Mead, created by Hoover Dam.
The winds on Saturn blow at 1,200 mph. 10 times faster than a strong Earth hurricane.
The heart of giraffe is two feet long, and can weigh as much as twenty four pounds.
The Hudson River along the island of Manhattan flows in either direction depending on the tide.
The deepest surface point on Mars is Hellas, about 3 km deep.
Some dragonflies can fly at speeds of up to 50 miles per hour.
The tentacles of the giant Arctic jellyfish can reach 120 feet (36.6 meters) in length.
Many physicists believe wormholes (a 'shortcut' through space and time) exist all around us but they are smaller than atoms.
The effect of Relativity made Astronaut Sergei Avdeyev a fraction of a second younger upon his return to Earth after 747 days in space.
Sweden has the least number of murders annually.
The estimated value of services provided by the global ecosystem (water, food, materials etc.) runs between $16 and $54 trillion per year.
Each year approximately 250,000 American husbands are physically attacked and beaten by their wives.
40% of women have hurled footwear at a man.
62% of us pop our zits.
Banging your head against a wall uses 150 calories an hour.
Snickers is the most popular candy.
More than one-third of us say our most difficult self-discipline challenge is weight, but almost as many cite spending. Coming in way behind these two are controlling our fears or our tempers, and fewer than two percent say their biggest challenge is smoking or drinking.
There are more Barbie dolls in Italy than there are Canadians in Canada.
Chocolate manufacturers use 40 percent of the world's almonds.
29% of us ignore RSVP.
By 1995 8 million U.S. households had computers with CD-ROM drives, a 1600% increase over 1990.
Spaghetti is the favorite pasta shape, with 38 percent favoring it over other pasta shapes. The second favorite shape is elbow macaroni, at 16 percent.
It takes 3,000 folds to wear out a dollar bill.
In a century's time Islam had converted one-third of the world.
Police estimated that 10,000 abandoned, orphaned and runaway children were roaming the streets of New York City in 1852.
Coffee is the second largest item on international commerce in the world.
5,840 people with pillow related injuries checked into U.S. emergency rooms in 1992.
Nearly 1/3 of US women color their hair.
51% of adults dress up for a Halloween festivity.
44% reuse tinfoil.
There are 10 doctors in the U.S. with the last name of 'Nurse'.
About 24 percent of alcoholics die in accidents, falls, fires, and suicides.
America once issued a 5-cent bill!
The most common surname in Sweden is Johansson.
Odds that you'll be killed by a plane falling from the sky: one in 25 million. Odds that it will happen today: 1 in 7 trillion.
40% of us have had music lessons.
Of devout coffee drinkers, about 62 percent of those who are 35 to 49 years of age say they become upset if they don't have a cup of coffee at their regular time. Only 50 percent of those under age 35 become upset.
Results of a survey show that 76 percent of women make their bed every day, compared to 46 percent of men.
Only 3 percent of Americans ages 18 to 21 attended college in 1890.
Half of all people who have ever smoked have now quit.
81.3% would tell an acquaintance to zip his pants.
Pennies, plural, have value to most Americans. A penny, singular, does not. Almost half of Americans say they would not bother to bend over to pick up a penny on the street, but more than half of us report having stashes of pennies laying around the house.
Statistically the safest age of life is 10 years old.
Only 30% of us can flare our nostrils.
Cold pizza is fairly popular. A survey found 15 percent actually PREFER pizza this way, suggesting that the number who love hot pizza but don't mind eating the leftovers cold the next day must be quite high indeed.
Car accidents rise 10% during the first week of daylight savings time.
71% can drive a stick-shift car.
Conception occurs in December more than any other month.
It is estimated that 60 percent of home smoke detectors in use do not work because they don't have a battery in them or the battery in the detector no longer has any potency.
16% of us have forgotten our own wedding anniversary (mostly men).
In 1970 only 5 percent of the American population lived in cities.
The average person has over 1,460 dreams a year!
There are over 15,000 miles of lighted neon tubing in the many signs on the Strip and downtown Las Vegas.
There was a ratio of 35 women to one man in England mental asylums in 1971. However in England prisons, this ratio was the opposite.
In the White House, there are 13,092 knives, forks and spoons!
On a bingo card of ninety numbers there are approximately 44 million ways to make B-I-N-G-O.
Alcoholics are twice as likely to confess a drinking problem to a computer than to a doctor, say researchers in Wisconsin.
In the U.S., 54% of wireless phone users are men and 46% are women.
France has the highest per capita consumption of cheese.
There are more television sets in the United States than there are people in Japan.
During your lifetime, you will eat about 60,000 pounds of food, that is the weight of about 6 elephants!
The population divides approximately in half between AM and PM people. But early-birds have the edge - 56 percent routinely rise early while 44 percent stay up late. Medical studies, by the way, find that people tend to work more productively in the morning.
66% of us eat cereal regularly.
A 1997 Gallup poll found that about one in four American workers - 24 percent - said that if they could do so, they would fire their boss.
The typical person goes to the bathroom 6 times a day.
There are more telephones than people in Washington DC.
Since 1978, at least 37 people have died as a result of shaking vending machines, in an attempt to get free merchandise. More than 100 have been injured.
37% claim to know how to use all the features on their VCR.
Seventy percent of house dust is made up of dead skin flakes.
Scientists have identified and described about 1.4 million species of an estimated ten to 100 million on earth.
90% of us depend on alarm clocks to wake us.
10% of us claim to have seen a ghost.
Before the Chinese take-over of Tibet in 1952, 25 percent of the males in the country were Buddhist monks.
A one degree rise in temperature equals a 2% increase in peak electricity consumption.
29% of us are virgins when we marry.
In 1915, the average annual family income in the United States was $687 a year.
There are 74 lobbyists for every one senator in Washington D.C.
The 3 most valuable brand names on earth: Marlboro, Coca-Cola, and Budweiser, in that order.
2/3 of us speed up at a yellow light.
71.6% of us eavesdrop.
A recent Gallup poll shows that 69 percent of Americans believe they will go somewhere after death.
The only country to register zero births in 1983 was the Vatican City.
It takes an average person fifteen to twenty minutes to walk once around the Pentagon.
Occasionally, hot dog sales at baseball stadiums exceed attendance, but typically, hot dog sales at ballparks average 80 percent of the attendance.
During the heating months of winter, the relative humidity of the average American home is 13% nearly twice as dry as the Sahara Desert.
Since the Lego Group began manufacturing blocks in 1949, more than 189 billion pieces in 2000 different shapes have been produced. This is enough for about 30 Lego pieces for every living person on Earth.
Statistically, traveling by air is the safest means of transportation. Atlanta's Hartsfield Airport handles more than 73 million passengers a year, making it the busiest airport in the world.
Astronaut Shannon Lucis spent 188 days in a row in space. That is the American record.
Per a 'Newsweek' poll, 49 percent of American fathers described themselves as better parents than their dads.
Forty percent of the American population has never visited a dentist.
According to a poll, only 29 percent of married couples agree on most political issues.
About 43% of convicted criminals in the U.S. are rearrested within a year of being released from prison.
4 out of 5 sing in the car.
An eyebrow typically contains 550 hairs.
68% of Americans who view computer commercials on TV that advertise a processor, such as the Pentium III, believe it speeds up your Internet connections. However, a modem does that.
The most common Spanish surname is Garcia.
Women shoplift more often than men; the statistics are 4 to 1.
53% read their horoscopes regularly.
Li is the family name for over 87 million People in China.
Recycling one glass jar saves enough energy to watch T.V for 3 hours!
78% would rather die quickly than live in a retirement home.
In 1977, less than 9 percent of physicians in the U.S. were women.
53% of high school grads and 27% of college grads 'get most of their information from TV.'
Forty percent of American adults cannot fill out a bank deposit slip correctly.
One poll says one American in four has yet to ride in an airplane. As for the three out of four who have, most have flown several times. Incidentally, fewer than two percent have been 'bumped' from a commercial flight. For every person who prefers an aisle seat, there are three who prefer windows.
33% of women lie about their weight.
45% use mouthwash every day.
85% of women wear the wrong bra size.
The average American family views television six hours each day.
Over 2500 left handed people a year are killed from using products made for right handed people!
1 in 5 men proposed on his knees.
The biggest cause of matrimonial fighting is money.
Japanese lead the world in vending machines, selling $100 Armani ties, $30 bottles of whiskey, and $5 glasses of beer, right next to soft drink machines. It is possible because of low vandalism and petty theft.
The average New York City household generates 6.2 pounds of garbage each day. Every day, between 12,000 and 14,000 tons of solid waste are disposed at the Fresh Kills Landfill in Staten Island, New York.
Seven billion gallons of water are flushed down toilets in the U.S. every day.
Quebec is the worlds leading exporter of asbestos.
The photo most often requested from the U.S. National Archives is that of the meeting between Elvis Presley and President Nixon in 1970. Presley had requested that Nixon make him an honorary drug enforcement agent and Nixon accommodated him.
About two hundred babies are born worldwide every minute.
85% of us will eat Spam this year.
In 1993 there were an estimated 64 million cats in the United States.
In 1969, Iowa State College conducted a survey indicating that a parent's stress level at the time of conception is a major factor in determining the child's sex. The child is usually the same sex as the less stressed parent.
The wingspan of a Boeing 747 jet is longer than the Wright Brothers first flight.
The average American pays more in taxes than for food, clothing and shelter put together.
Someone on Earth reports seeing a UFO every three minutes. In the U.S., reported sightings are most likely to occur in July, at 9 p.m. or 3 a.m.
Focus group information compiled by CalComp revealed that 50 percent of computer users do not like using a mouse.
Lost time in traffic could cost American businesses up to 100 billion dollars per year.
57% have had deja vu.
According to the US Government people have tried nearly 28,000 different ways to lose weight.
1/3 of us don't wear seat belts.
Nobody yet has explained satisfactorily why couples who marry in January, February, and March tend to have the highest divorce rates.
An attosecond is one billionth of a billionth of a second.
10 Percent of men are left-handed while only 8 percent of women are left-handed. Male or female, all left-handed people are 'in their right mind.'
Ten percent of men are left-handed while only 8 percent of women are left-handed.
'Evaluation and Parameterization of Stability and Safety Performance Characteristics of Two and Three Wheeled Vehicular Toys for Riding.' Title of a $230,000 research project proposed by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, to study the various ways children fall off bicycles.
20% of us have played in a band at one time in our life.
Only about 30 percent of teenage males consistently apply sun protection lotion when going poolside, compared to 46 percent of female teens.
Half of all men start to lose their hair by the time they turn 30. Everybody loses dozens of hairs a day - the key thing is whether or not they grow back. More than 40 percent of men wind up with significant hair loss.
Out of the 34,000 gun deaths in the U.S. each year, fewer than 300 are listed as 'justifiable homicide,' the only category that could include shooting a burglar, mugger, or rapist.
In 1916, 55% of the cars in the world were Model T Fords.
About 10 percent of the workforce in Egypt is under 12 years of age. Although laws protecting children are on the books, they are not well enforced, partly because many poverty-stricken parents feel forced to send their children out to help support the family.
According to one U.S. study, about 25 percent of all adolescent and adult males never use deodorant.
44% have broken a bone.
10% believe in the 10 Commandments.(Only 10%?!)
56% of women do the bills in a marriage.
13% (mostly men) have spent a night in jail.
If you pet a cat 70 million times, you will have developed enough static electricity to light a 60-watt light bulb for one minute.
Automobiles take up about 24 percent of the total area of Los Angeles.
There are 293 ways to make change for a dollar.
They call it puppy love: An American Animal Hospital Association poll showed that 33% of dog owners admit that they talk to their dogs on the phone or leave messages on an answering machine while away.
The odds of a mother having twins are 90 to 1.
The average raindrop reaches a top speed of 22 miles per hour.
Pediatricians estimate that 58 percent of their young patients go to child care or school even when ill, according to a Gallup survey. This despite the fact that 81 percent of mothers working full-time have stayed home at times to care for a sick child.
More than 50 percent of adults surveyed said that children should not be paid money for getting good grades in school.
82% believe in an afterlife.
14% of us eat the watermelon seeds.
The tallest man in the world was 8' 11.1' Robert Wadlow. He was just 22 when he died in 1949 from an infection caused by leg braces he needed to keep him on his feet.
Portion of land in the US owned by the government: 1/3
9% of us skip breakfast daily.
85,000,000 tons of paper are used each year in the U.S!
Two-thirds of men wear briefs, 22 percent wear boxers, and six percent don't wear underwear (I assume 6% did not answer).
Adults spend an average of 16 times as many hours selecting clothes (145.6 hours a year) as they do on planning their retirement.
45% believe in ghosts.
Every 45 seconds, a house catches on fire in the United States!
35% give to charity at least once a month.
2 out of 5 have married their first love.
3 out of 4 of us store our dollar bills in rigid order with singles leading up to higher denominations.
If you counted for 24 hours a day, it would take over 31,000 years to reach one trillion.
Someone within 200 miles of your town claims to have had direct contact with a monster, ghost or other unexplainable being.
The voltage of most car batteries is 12 volts.
While the average cost of air travel is about $60 per hour, using an air-phone during that plane trip can cost as much as $160 per hour.
66% of women and 59% of men have used a mix to cook and taken credit for doing it from scratch.
Residential buildings use about 35 percent of all available electricity.
Americans use over 16,000 tons of aspirin a year.
Nine out of 10 Americans tell pollsters they have NEVER had a professional massage.
Boys who have unusual first names are more likely to have mental problems than boys with conventional names. Girls don't seem to have this problem.
Men do 29% of laundry each week. Only 7% of women trust their husbands to do it correctly.
People in Iceland read more books per capita than any other people in the world.
Nearly half of all psychiatrists have been attacked by one of their patients.
7% of Americans don't know the first 9 words of the American anthem, but know the first 7 of the Canadian anthem!
The seven spikes atop the Statue of Libertys head represent the seven seas and seven continents of the world.
In 1790, the U.S. government conducted its first head count. The total population was just under four million (3,929,625).
In 1995, Toys R Us sold more than $9 billion of goods in the U.S. alone.
Hawaii has the highest percentage of cremations of all other U.S. states, with a 60.6 percent preference over burial.
Most humans can guess someone's sex with 95 percent accuracy just by smelling their breath.
Textbook shortages are so severe in some U.S. public schools that 71 percent of teachers say they have purchased reading materials with their own money.
Nearly 87 percent of the 103 people polled in 1977 were unable to identify correctly an unlabeled copy of the Declaration of Independence.
The billionth digit of pi is 9.
53% of women will not leave the house without makeup on.
In 1995, each American used an annual average of 731 pounds of paper, more than double the amount used in the 1980s. Contrary to predictions that computers would displace paper, consumption is growing.
When nobody else is around, 47% drink straight from the carton.
The U.S produces 19% of the world's trash. The annual contribution includes 20 billion disposable diapers, 2 billion razors and 1.7 billion pens.
Tide has 70 percent of the market share for detergent.
The average IQ is 100, while 140 is the beginning of genius IQ.
There are more collect calls on father Day than any other day of the year.
The MGM Grand's 170,000-square-foot casino is larger than the playing field at Yankee Stadium. It contains more than 3,000 gaming machines.
The Earth experiences 50,000 earthquakes a year.
28% of us have skinny-dipped. 14% with the opposite sex.
Smoking accounts for at least 7% of all health care costs in the US.
15% regularly go to a shrink.
The Japanese cremate 93 percent of their dead, as compared to Great Britain at 67 percent and the United States at just over 12 percent.
13% of us admit to occasionally doing our offspring's homework.
Only 13% brush our teeth from side to side.
On average, we send 38 Christmas cards every year.
Researcherd don't know why, but people living in mountain states eat 30% more cookies than other people.
53% prefer ATM machines over tellers.
14% have attended a self-help meeting.
Retirement planning time: Adults spend an average of 16 times as many hours selecting clothes (145.6 hours a year) as they do on planning their retirement.
Less than 10% are trilingual.
The average US worker toils for two hours and 47 minutes of each working day just to pay income tax.
Over 50% believe in spanking - but only a child over 2 years old.
30% of us refuse to sit on a public toilet seat.
The number one reason people choose to buy a wireless phone is for safety (nearly 50% of those who own wireless phones purchased it for safety).
According to a major hotel chain, approximately the same numbers of men and women are locked out of their rooms. 32 percent are less than fully dressed.
Significantly more black women die from heart disease than any other group.
Executives work an average 57 hours a week, but just 22 percent say their hours are a major cause of stress.
22% leave the glob of toothpaste in the sink.
Your statistical chance of being murdered is one in twenty thousand.
Per a national survey, 80 percent of U.S. teachers in grades kindergarten through eighth grade have received chocolate as a gift from their students.
The tail section of an airplane gives the bumpiest ride.
From the 1850's to the 1880's, the most common reason for death among cowboys in the American West was being dragged by a horse while caught in the stirrups.
50% admit they regularly sneak food into movie theaters to avoid the high prices of snack foods.
There are more than 10 million bricks in the Empire State Building.
55,700 people in the US are injured by jewelry each year.
The average human scalp has 100,000 hairs.
21% of us don't make our bed daily. 5% of us never do.
In the USA - more toilets flush at the half time of the Super Bowl than at any other time of the year.
The Average American/Canadian drinks about 600 soda's per year.
59% of us say we're average-looking.
New York City has the largest black population of any city in the United States. It is followed by Chicago and Philadelphia.
A United Parcel Service delivery person typically makes up to 300 pickups or deliveries a day. That compares to someone doing 600 sets of step aerobics a day.
Only 4% asked the parents' approval for their bride's hand.
Five out of six people never keep diaries of any sort. Only six percent say they keep a daily diary, and many of these people are just Franklin Day Planner types, not real diarists.
According to the Texas Department of Transportation, one person is killed annually painting stripes on the state's highways and roads.
National Pi Day is March 14, at 1:59. (3/14 1:59)
6% propose over the phone.
67.5% of men wear briefs instead of boxers.
The average life span of London residents in the middle of the 19th century was 27 years. For members of the working class, that number dropped to 22 years.
Two out of three people sleep on their sides, and they're about equally divided as to WHICH side. Of the remainder, slightly more sleep on their stomachs than sleep on their backs.
In the United States, more than 25 percent of women's fashion dollars are spent on sizes 16 and up.
Meteorologists claim they're right 85% of the time.
Chances that a burglary in the US will be solved: 1 in 7.
Burns are second only to traffic accidents as the cause of accidental loss of life in the U.S.: about 6,000 fatal burns a year.
Theres 1,860 steps to the top of the Empire State Building.
In the U.S. the average bride is 21 years old, the average groom is 23.
The World Trade Center towers in New York City had two zip codes, 10047 and 10048, one for each building.
Two out of three adults in the United States have hemorrhoids.
There is now an ATM at McMurdo Station in Antarctica, which has a winter population of 200.
45% of us consistently follow the speed limit.
The Mayan calender, the most accurate in the world, ends in the year 2012.
According to NASA, the U.S. has the world's most violent weather. In a typical year, the U.S. can expect some 10,000 violent thunderstorms, 5,000 floods, 1,000 tornadoes and several hurricanes.
In 1885 the Home Insurance Company of Chicago was the tallest building in the world. It was only 9 stories tall.
Top Six reasons for being late for work: 1) traffic. 2) oversleeping. 3) procrastination. 4) Chores. 5) Car Trouble. 6) Having Sex.
58.4% have called into work sick when we weren't.
Only 30% of us know our cholesterol level.
In 1990 there were about 15,000 vacuum cleaner related accidents in the U.S.
Every year, over 8800 people injure themselves with a toothpick.
A NUKE InterNETWORK poll found that 52 percent of Internet users have cut back on watching TV in order to spend more time online; 12 percent have cut back on seeing friends.
20% of women consider their parents to be their best friends.
According to Scientfic American magazine: if you live in the northern hemisphere, odds are that every time you fill your lungs with air at least one molecule of that air once passed thru Socrates lungs.
The world record for passing gas was set on Japanese television, 3,000 times in a row.
The typical person swallows 295 during dinner.
Per capita, Canada has more doughnut shops than any other country.
There is 31,622,400 seconds in a leap year.
The average American looks at eight houses before buying one.
North America's most popular snack food is potato chips.
Over 15 billion prizes have been given away in Cracker Jacks boxes.
22% of us skip lunch daily.
40,000 Americans are injured by toilets every year.
One-fourth of the world's population lives on less than $200 a year. Ninety million people survive on less than $75 a year.
In the famous Parker Brothers game 'Monopoly,' the space on which a player has the greatest statistical chance of landing is Illinois Avenue. This is followed by the B&O Railroad, Free Parking, Tennessee Avenue, New York Avenue and the Reading Railroad.
Despite the fact that 77 percent of Americans go to the grocery store with a list, it's estimated that half of everything bought there is bought on impulse. Supermarkets report very strong sales of almost anything they stock at the check-out line.
The average one-dollar bill wears out in less than two years.
67.5% of men wear briefs.
If you earn twenty thousand dollars a year, one minute of your time is worth a little more than seventeen cents.
22% of all restaurant meals include French fries.
In 1984, 13,126 people were arrested in Federal drug cases.
4 out of 5 of us have suffered from hemorrhoids.
54.2% of us always wash our hands after using the toilet.
As much as six percent of the world's population may experience sleep paralysis, the inability to move and speak for several minutes after awakening.
The inscription on the tablet held by the Statue of Liberty reads July 4, 1776 in Roman numerals.
A quarter has 119 grooves on its edge, a dime has one less groove!
The number of births in India each year is greater than the entire population of Australia.
The Greeks noted that rubbing amber produced a static charge.
More than a third of all adults hit their alarm clock's 'snooze' button each morning, an average of three times before they get up. Those most guilty of snatching some extra sleep are those in the 25-34 age bracket, at 57 percent.
40% of McDonald's profits come from the sales of Happy Meals.
Last year Americans ate more than 8.5 million pounds of tortilla chips on Super Bowl Sunday.
A recent study conducted by the Shyness Clinic in Menlo Park, California, revealed that almost 90 percent of Americans label themselves as shy.
Super Bowl Sunday is the most popular party day of the year - surpassing New Year's Eve. It is also the slowest weekend for weddings.
57% of British school kids think Germany is the most boring country in Europe.
Each day, 14,000 tons of garbage are dumped into Fresh Kills, NY, the largest landfill in the world.
Every time you lick a stamp, you are consuming 1/10 of a calorie.
Per capita, it is safer to live in New York City than it is to live in Pine Bluff, Arkansas.
12% of men never use their car blinkers.
57% save pretty gift paper to reuse.
49% believe in ESP.
It rains more often in London, England, on a Thursday than any other day of the week.
Most deaths in a hospital are between the times of 4pm and 6pm, the time when the human body is at its weakest.
More than 63 million Star Trek books, in more than 15 languages, are in print; 13 were sold every minute in the U.S. in 1995.
In the United States, five million teeth are knocked out annually.
A man named Charles Osborne had the hiccups for 69 years! Wow!
69% of men say that they would rather break up with a girl in private rather than in public.
Seven people have been struck by meteorite fragments.
A lump of pure gold the size of a matchbox can be flattened into a sheet the size of a tennis court!
The Average American/Canadian eats about 11.9lbs of cereal per year.
The most popular name given to boat-owners' boats is 'Obsession'.
On average, 12 newborns will be given to the wrong parents daily.
Portion of Harvard students who graduate with honors: 4/5
The standard escalator moves 120 feet per minute.
Super Bowl Monday sales of antacids increase by more than 20% over other Mondays.
5% of Canadians don't know the first 7 words of the Canadian anthem, but know the first 9 of the American anthem!
The typical shower is 101 degrees F.
August is the month when most baby's are born.
Over 2500 left handed people a year are killed from using products made for right handed people.
Dominos Pizza sales typically double on Super Bowl Sunday.
90% believe in divine retribution.
A telephone signal travels a 100,000 miles per second.
Ninety percent of U.S. households have at lease one remote control for the television; 8 out of 10 report losing it.
About 1 out of every 70 people who pick their nose actually eat their boogers.
315 entries in Webster's 1996 Dictionary were misspelled.
The 3 largest newspaper circulations are Russian.
Hawaii is the only state in the United States where male life expectancy exceeds 70 years. Hawaii also leads all states in life expectancy in general, with an average of 73.6 years for both males and females.
About 25 percent of all male Americans between the ages of ten and fifteen were 'gainfully employed' at the turn of the century. By 1970, so few in that age bracket were employed that the U.S. Census Bureau did not bother to make inquiries about them.
8% of Americans twiddle their thumbs.
Statistically speaking, the most dangerous job in the United States is that of Sanitation Worker. Firemen and Policeman are a close second and third, followed by Leather Tanners in fourth.
56% of the video game market is adults.
As many as nine out of ten people are right-handed, and the word for that side, 'right,' is derived from a variety of sources, all of which suggest strength. Left, on the other hand, comes from the Old English, lyft, for useless, weak.
Every minute 47 Bibles are sold or distributed throughout the world.
In the United States, deaf people have safer driving records than hearing people nationally.
No piece of square dry paper can be folded in half more than 7 times!
During the Christmas buying season, Visa cards alone are used an average of 5,340 times every minute in the U.S.
75% of people wash from top to bottom in the shower.
2 out of 3 of us wouldn't give up our spouse even for a night for a million bucks.
Right now, this very second, 70% of the people driving on U.S. highways are speeding.
About 60 percent of all American babies are named after close relatives.
More People use blue toothbrushes then red ones.
As of 1983, an average of Three billion Christmas cards were sent annually in the United States.
58% of women paint their nails regularly.
In 1990 the life expectancy of the average American male was 72.7 years and 76.1 years for females. In 1900 the life expectancy was 46.6 for males and 48.7 for females.
A 1991 Gallup survey indicated that 49 percent of Americans didn't know that white bread is made from wheat.
You are more likely to win the state lottery than to be attacked by a shark.
For the 66% of American's who admit to reading in the bathroom, the preferred reading material is 'Reader's Digest.'
The average person over fifty will have spent 5 years waiting in lines.
In 1996, Americans bought only 12 inches of dental floss per capita.
The salt scattered on American highways each winter to keep cars from skidding on snow and ice represents 10 percent of the world's annual output of the mineral.
In 1977, according to the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, there were 14.5 telephone calls made for every 100 people in the entire world.
Canada is the largest importer of American cars.
According to a 1995 survey, 7 out of 10 British dogs get Christmas gifts from their doting owners.
53% of us would take advice from Ann Landers.
44% of men tailgate to speed up the person in front of them.
No one knows how many people live in the country of Bhutan. As of 1975, no census had ever been taken.
The chance of contracting an infection during a hospital stay in the USA is 1 in 15.
Paranormal experts say people reach the peak of their ability to see ghosts when they're 7 years old.
69% eat the cake before the frosting.
In the US, the error rate for doctors prescribing the wrong medicine for their patient's ailment is 12%.
The word electricity derives from the Greek word elektron meaning amber.
According to a 1995 poll, 1 out of 10 people admitted that they will buy an outfit intending to wear it once and return it.
Plymouth Rock weighs seven tons.
The one extra room new-home shoppers want the most is the laundry room, at 95 percent. Only 66 percent of new-home buyers request an extra room to use as an office.
A survey finds that a quarter of all people who take a briefcase or something similar to work with them have got SOMETHING in it for self-defense.
Ten percent of frequent fliers say they never check their luggage when flying.
If you yelled for over 8 and a half years, you would have produced enough sound energy to heat one cup of coffee.
Half a billion people - about one of every eight - are suffering chronic malnutrition today.
9% of women and 8% of men have had cosmetic surgery.
One in every 4 Americans has appeared on television!
The worlds oldest piece of chewing gum is over 9000 years old!
Scientists estimate up to 20 percent of the worlds plant and animal species may be extinct by the year 2000.
70% of us drink orange juice daily.
Sixty percent of big-firm executives said the cover letter is as important or more important than the rsum itself when you're looking for a new job.
85% of men don't use the slit in their underwear.
According to a poll, 39% of the people interviewed admitted that they snoop in their host's medicine cabinets.
The Angel of the North, Gateshead, UK, with a wingspan of 177 ft/54 m, is the largest sculpture of an angel in the world.
The longest Monopoly game in a bathtub was 99 hours long.
When stuntman and parachutist Dar Robinson leaped from the ledge of the 1,170 foot high CN Tower in Toronto, he was paid $150,000, the most ever for a single stunt.
Did you know that the beam of light shining from the top of the Luxor hotel is the most powerful in the world. The equivalent of 40 billion candle power, the beam is visible to airplanes from a distance of 250 miles.
The duration record for a face-slapping contest was set in Kiev, USSR, in 1931 when a draw was declared between Bezbordny and Goniusch after 30 hours.
The CN Tower, in Toronto, is the tallest free standing structure in the world.
Behram, an Indian thug, holds the record for most murders by a single individual. He strangled 931 people between 1790-1840 with a piece of yellow and white cloth, called a ruhmal. The most by a woman is 610, by Countess Erzsebet Bathory of Hungary.
The most powerful earthquake to strike the United States occurred in 1811 in New Madrid, Missouri. The quake shook more than one million square miles, and was felt as far as 1,000 miles away.
The Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History houses the world's largest shell collection, some 15 million specimens. A smaller museum in Sanibel, Florida owns a mere 2 million shells and claims to be the worlds only museum devoted solely to mollusks.
The greatest snowfall ever in a single storm was 189 inches at the Mount Shasta Ski Bowl in February, 1959.
On July 31, 1994, Simon Sang Sung of Singapore turned a single piece of dough into 8,192 noodles in 59.29 seconds!
Belgian driver Jenatzy was the first to reach a speed of over 100km/h in his electrically powered car 'La Jamais Contente' in 1899.
The company, Kodak, is the largest user of silver.
The world's tallest mountains, the Himalayas, are also the fastest growing. Their growth - about half an inch a year is caused by the pressure exerted by two of the earth's continental plates (the Eurasian plate and the Indo-Australian plate) pushing against one another.
The world's biggest trap (called a bunker in Europe) is Hell's Half Acre on the 535 m 585 yd seventh hole of the Pine Valley course, Clementon, NJ, built in 1912 and generally regarded as the world's most trying course.
The world's largest bullfighting ring is in Mexico City.
The longest bout of sneezing recorded was by Donna Griffith. It began in January 1981 and continued until September 1983. It lasted for 978 days, and 4,687,514 gesundheits.
The longest Monopoly game ever played was 1,680 hours long, that's 70 straight days!
The highest wind velocity ever recorded in the United States was 231 miles per hour, on Mount Washington, New Hampshire, in 1934.
The world's widest river is the Amazon river.
The world's largest coffee pot is located in Davidson, Saskatchewan. It measures 24 Feet(7.3 Meters) tall, is made of sheet metal and could hold 150,000 8 ounce cups of coffee.
The largest school in the world is a k-12 school in the Philippines, with an enrollment of about 25,000.
The surface speed record on the moon is 10.56 miles per hour. It was set in a lunar rover.
Tom Wolfe was paid $5 million for the film rights to his novel, Bonfire of the Vanities, the most ever earned by an author.
The largest stained-glass window in the world is at Kennedy International Airport in New York City. It can be seen on the American Airlines terminal building and measures 300 feet long by 23 feet high.
France had the first supermarket in the world. It was started by relatives of the people who started the Texas Big Bear supermarket chain.
The Sahara desert has the highest sand dunes.
Boasting nearly 30 brewery locations, Nigeria has emerged as the largest beer-producing country in Africa. The continent's 8,000-year brewing history began with ancient Egyptian commercial brewing dynasties and still includes handmade tribal beers.
The largest Great White Shark ever caught measured 37 feet and weighed 24,000 pounds. It was found in a herring weir in New Brunswick in 1930. The harmless Whale Shark, holds the title of largest fish, with the record being a 59-footer captured in Thailand in 1919.
The mother of all mothers? The largest number of children born to one woman is recorded at 69. From 1725-1765 a Russian peasant woman gave birth to 16 sets of twins, 7 sets of triplets and 4 sets of quadruplets.
The largest pyramid in the world is not in Egypt but in Cholulu de Rivadahia, Mexico. It is 177 feet tall and covers 25 acres. It was built sometime between 6 and 12 AD.
Westwood Studios' computer game 'Command and Conquer' is the most successful war game series of all time according to Guinness Book of World Records.
The biggest hog ever recorded was a creature named Big Boy who weighed in at 1, 904 pounds.
The largest movie theater in the world, Radio City Music Hall in New York City, opened in December, 1932. It originally had 5,945 seats.
If you walked the entire length of the China's Great Wall, you would be walking farther than the distance between New York City and Miami, Florida. The wall stretches for over 1,500 miles. The driving distance between New York and Miami is just over 1,250 miles. Provided you don't get lost.
The Bingham Canyon copper mine in Utah is the biggest manmade hole on Earth. It is more than a half-mile deep and 2.5 miles across. An astronaut can see this hole from the space shuttle with his bare eyes.
Rainbow Bridge, Nature's abstract sculpture carved of solid sandstone, is the world's largest natural-rock span, 278 feet wide and 309 feet high. Technically, it is located in Utah just north of the Arizona state line, but 'Arizona Highway's Travel Arizona' book cites it as a local attraction.
The Rogun Dam is the world's highest. The only problem is that it's located in Vakhsh, Tajikistan. Even downtown Vakhsh is off the beaten tourist path.
What is billed as the world's largest weather vane sits on the shores of White Lake in Montague, Michigan. It's 48 feet tall with a 26-foot wind arrow and adorned with a 14-foot replica of a 19th-century Great Lakes schooner.
The Tokyo World Lanes Bowling Center is the largest bowling establishment in the world. It has 252 lanes and one very tired pinsetter.
Toronto, Ontario was home to the biggest swimming pool in the world in 1925. It held 2000 swimmers, and was 300ft x 75ft. It is still in operation.
In 1935, Jesse Owens set six track and field world records in less than one hour.
On March 16, 1970, a bidder at Sotheby & Company in London paid $20,000 for one glass paperweight.
One of the world's tallest, fastest roller coasters: Buffalo Bill's 'Desperado'.
Diane Sheer holds the record for licking the most stamps in a five minute period. She slobbered on 225 of the little things.
Andrzej Makowski is the youngest person on record to receive a driver's license. He received his license when he was just 14 years and 8 months old.
Zaire is the world leader in cobalt mining, producing two-thirds of the world's cobalt supply.
The smallest volcano in the world is Taal.
At the turn of the last millennium, Dublin Ireland had the largest slave market in the world, run by the Vikings.
Karen Roman grew the world's largest cauliflower. It weighed 22 pounds.
The largest employer in the world is the Indian railway system, employing over a million people.
The Stratosphere Hotel and Casino is 1,149 feet tall, making it the tallest building west of the Mississippi River.
Shakespeare's most talkative character is Hamlet. None of his other characters have as many lines in a single play. (Falstaff, who appears in several plays, has more lines total).
Lang Martin balanced seven golf balls vertically without adhesive at Charlotte, NC on 9 February 1980.
In 1968, Steve McPeak traveled from Chicago to Los Angeles on a unicycle. The trip took him six weeks, but he planned for the long bike journey. He brought an extra tire and a spare heinie.
At 840,000 square miles, Greenland is the largest island in the world. It is 3 times the size of Texas. By comparison Iceland is only 39,800 square miles.
According to the Airport Council International, Hartsfield Airport in Atlanta, Georgia is the busiest airport in the world. Hartsfield served 73,474,298 passengers in 1998, followed by Chicago O'Hare, Los Angeles, and London's Heathrow.
Strangeray Springs cattle station in South Australia is the largest ranch in the world. It's area, 30,029 square kilometers, and is only slightly smaller than the European country of Belgium.
Linn's Stamp News is the world's largest weekly newspaper for stamp collectors.
Howard Kinsey and Mrs. R. Roark, during a game of tennis, batted the ball back and forth 2001 consecutive times.
Bernard Clemmens of London managed to sustain a fart for an officially recorded time of 2 minutes 42 seconds.
The Library of Congress is the largest library in the world.
The shopping mall in Abbotsford, British Columbia, Canada has the largest water clock in North America.
As of September 1998, the highest recorded mileage for a car was 1,615,000 miles for a 1966 Volvo P-1800.
Jackie Bibby holds the record for sitting in a bathtub with the most live rattlesnakes. He sat in a tub with 35 of them.
The first skyscraper in the United States was built in Chicago.
The world's longest suspension bridge opened to traffic on April 5, 1998. The 3,911-meter (12,831-feet) Akashi Kaikyo Bridge is 580 meters (1,900 feet) longer than the Humber Bridge in England, the previous record holder.
The oldest domestic cat was a male named Grandpa that lived to be 34 years, 2 months, and 4 hours.
Most insects used in a film: 22 million bees in The Swarm.
At 12 years old, an African named Ernest Loftus made his first entry in his diary and continued everyday for 91 years.
The Bible is the number one shoplifted book in America.
The greatest measured water discharge was an estimated 740,000-1,000,000 gallons by the Giant Geyser, in Yellowstone National Park. However, this estimate made in the 1950s, was only a rough calculation.
Christianity has over a billion followers. Islam is next in representation with half this number.
The Pentagon is twice the size of the Merchandise Mart in Chicago, and has three times the floor space of the Empire State Building in New York. It is one of the world's largest office buildings.
The Corinthian columns in the National Building Museum in Washington, DC, are among the tallest in the world at 75 feet high, 8 feet in diameter, 25 feet in circumference, each built of 70,000 bricks.
Hawaii's Mount Waialeale is the wettest place in the world - it rains about ninety per cent of the time, about 480 inches per annum.
The oldest public park in the U.S. is Boston Common.
The world's largest Gothic cathedral is in new York City. It is the Cathedral of St. John the Divine on Amsterdam Avenue and 112th Street. The cathedral measures 601 feet long, 146 feet wide, and has a transept measuring 320 feet from end to end.
On December 15, 1998, the Mayer Kaplan Jewish Community Center in Skokie, Illinois attempted to set the inaugural world's record for largest number of dreidels to be spun at one time. At least 200 people were needed to set the record.
The longest street in the world is Yonge Street, which starts in Toronto, on the north shore of Lake Ontario, and winds its way north then west to end at the Ontario-Manitoba-Minnesota border.
The world's largest art gallery is the Winter Palace and Hermitage in St. Petersburg, Russia. Visitors would have to walk 15 miles to see the 322 galleries which house nearly 3 million works of art.
The A & P was the first chain-store business to be established. It began in 1842.
Victor Hugo's Les Miserables contains one of the longest sentences in the French language 823 words without a period.
New York City has the most skyscrapers of any city in the world with 140. Chicago is a distant second at 68. The term 'skyscraper' technically describes all habitable buildings with a height of more than 500 ft (152m).
The largest incense stick ever made was almost fifteen-feet long and six-inches thick.
The deepest canyon in low relief territory is Hell's Canyon, dividing Oregon and Idaho. It plunges 7,900 ft from the Devil Mountain down to the Snake River.
The escalator in the CNN Center in Atlanta, Georgia is the longest freestanding escalator in the world, rising 160 feet or approximately eight stories in height.
The deepest canyon in the USA is Kings Canyon, East Fresno, CA, which runs through Sierra and Sequoia National Forests. The deepest point, that measures 8,200 ft, is in the Sierra National Park Forest section of the canyon.
Guinness Book of Records holds the record for being the book most often stolen from Public Libraries.
The largest web-footed bird is the albatross.
The total area of Denver International Airport is 53 square miles, twice the size of Manhattan Island, New York, and larger than the city boundary of Boston, Miami or San Francisco.
The greatest mistake you can make in life is to continually be afraid you will make one.~ Elbert Hubbard ~
Experience does not err; only your judgments err by expecting from her what is not in her power.~ Lenoardo da Vinci ~
There is more to life than increasing its speed.~ Mahatma Ghandi ~
He who fears being conquered is sure of defeat.~ Napoleon Bonaparte ~
Failure is blindness to the strategic element in events; success is readiness for instant action when the opportune moment arrives.~ Newell D. Hillis ~
Light is the task where many share the toil.~ Homer ~
Don't waste your life in doubts and fears: spend yourself on the work before you, well assured that the right performance of this hour's duties will be the best preparation for the hours or ages that follow it.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
They can because they think they can.~ Virgil ~
The surest way not to fail is to determine to succeed.~ Richard Brinsley Sheridan ~
The less people speak of their greatness,*the more we think of it.~ Lord Bacon ~
To do great things is difficult; but to command great things is more difficult.~ Friedrich Nietzsche ~
The years teach much which the days never know.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Pick up a grain a day and add to your heap. You will soon learn, by happy experience, the power of littles as applied to intellectual processes and gains.~ John S. Hart ~
Misfortunes often sharpen the genius.~ Ovid ~
All for one and one for all.~ Motto from the Three Musketeeers, by Alexandre Dumas ~
Do not follow where the path may lead.*Go instead where there is no path and leave a trail.~ Harold R. McAlindon ~
We learn wisdom from failure much more than success. We often discover what we will do, by finding out what we will not do.~ Samuel Smiles ~
There are glimpses of heaven to us in every act, or thought, or word, that raises us above ourselves.~ A. P. Stanley ~
The swiftness of time is infinite, as is still more evident when we look back on the past.~ Seneca ~
Gaining time is gaining everything in love, trade and war.~ John Shebbeare ~
If the mass of people hesitate to act, strike thou in swift with all boldness; the noble heart that understands and seizes quick hold of opportunity can achieve everything.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe  ~
All truly wise thoughts have been thought already, thousands of times; but to make them truly ours, we must think them over again honestly, until they take firm root in our personal experience.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ~
One who fears failure limits his activities.*Failure is only the opportunity to more*intelligently begin again.~ Henry Ford ~
Nothing of character is really permanent but virtue and personal worth.~ Daniel Webster ~
Men do less than they ought,*unless they do all they can.~ Thomas Carlyle ~
First say to yourself what you would be;*and then do what you have to do.~ Epictetus  ~
If you have an hour, will you not improve that hour, instead of idling it away?~ Lord Chesterfield ~
To reach a port, we must sail;*Sail, not tie at anchor;*Sail, not drift.~ Franklin Roosevelt ~
Collect as precious pearls the words of the wise and virtuous.~ Abd-el-Kadar ~
Advancing time sifts and cleanses all alike.~ Aeschylus ~
To be satisfied with a little, is the greatest wisdom; and he that increaseth his riches, increaseth his cares; but a contented mind is a hidden treasure, and trouble findeth it not.~ Akhenaton ~
Wisdom, compassion, and courage are the three universally recognized moral qualities of men.~ Confucius  ~
A good word is an easy obligation; but not to speak ill requires only our silence; which costs us nothing.~ John Tillotson ~
Half of the failures in life come from pulling one's horse when he is leaping.~ Thomas Hood ~
On every thorn, delightful wisdom grows,*In every rill a sweet instruction flows.~ Edward Young ~
The imagination exercises a powerful influence over every act of sense, thought, reason,*-- over every idea.~ Latin Proverb ~
To conquer oneself is the best and noblest victory; to be vanquished by one's own nature is the worst and most ignoble defeat.~ Plato ~
The whole of life is but a moment of time. It is our duty, therefore to use it, not to misuse it.~ Plutarch ~
Ask yourself this question:*'Will this matter a year from now?'~ Richard Carlson ~
He who devotes sixteen hours a day to hard study may become at sixty as wise as he thought himself at twenty.~ Mary Wilson Little ~
Honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom.~ Thomas Jefferson ~
Ah, but a man's reach should exceed his grasp,*or what's a heaven for?~ Robert Browning ~
Men soon the faults of others learn*A few their virtues, too, find out;*But is there one I have a doubt*Who can his own defects discern?~ Sanskrit Proverb ~
Time, which changes people, does not alter the image we have of them.~ Marcel Proust ~
A ruler should be slow to punish and swift to reward.~ Ovid ~
Wisdom begins in wonder.~ Socrates ~
Hope is the dream of a man awake.~ French Proverb ~
The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.~ Eleanor Roosevelt ~
Look within, for within is the wellspring of virtue, which will not cease flowing, if you cease not from digging.~ Marcus Aurelius ~
Imagination is more important than knowledge.~ Albert Einstein ~
The happiest life is that which constantly exercises and educates what is best in us.~ Hamerton ~
A fair reputation is a plant, delicate in its nature, and by no means rapid in its growth. It will not shoot up in a night like the gourd of the prophet; but, like that gourd, it may perish in a night.~ Jeremy Taylor ~
Go to the people. Learn from them. Live with them. Start with what they know. Build with what they have. The best of leaders when the job is done, when the task is accomplished, the people will say we have done it ourselves.~ Lao Tzu ~
The difference between a successful person and others is not a lack of strength, not a lack of knowledge, but rather a lack in will.~ Vince Lombardi ~
Our character is but the stamp on our souls of the free choices of good and evil we have made through life.~ John C. Geikie ~
Heaven never helps the man who will not act.~ Sophocles ~
They can conquer who believe they can.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Character is a diamond that scratches every other stone.~ Cyrus A. Bartol ~
In the hopes of reaching the moon men fail to see the flowers that blossom at their feet.~ Albert Schweitzer ~
The greatest of faults, I should say, is to be conscious of none.~ Thomas Carlyle ~
Success is the sum of small efforts, repeated day in and day out.~ Robert Collier ~
Keep steadily before you the fact that all true success depends at last upon yourself.~ Theodore T. Hunger ~
Live in each season as it passes; breathe the air, drink the drink, taste the fruit, and resign yourself to the influences of each.~ Henry David Thoreau ~
I like the dreams of the future better than the history of the past.~ Patrick Henry ~
Kind words are the music of the world.~ F. W. Faber ~
Energy and persistence conquer all things.~ Benjamin Franklin ~
I recommend you take care of the minutes and the hours will take care of themselves.~ Earl of Chesterfield ~
Nothing is predestined: The obstacles of your past can become the gateways that lead to new beginnings.~ Ralph Blum ~
Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake.~ Henry David Thoreau ~
A man's life is interesting primarily when he has failed--I well know. For it's a sign that he tried to surpass himself.~ Georges Clemenceau ~
There is only one way to happiness, and that is to cease worrying things which are beyond the power of our will.~ Epictetus ~
We are still masters of our fate.*We are still captains of our souls.~ Winston Churchill ~
The secret of all great undertakings is hard work and self-reliance.~ Gustavus F. Swift ~
Success in life, in anything,*depends upon the number of persons*that one can make himself agreeable to.~ Thomas Carlyle ~
Time and space are fragments of the infinite for the use of finite creatures.~ Henri Frederic Amiel ~
There is no happiness except in the realization that we have accomplished something.~ Henry Ford ~
Employ your time in improving yourself by other men's writings so that you shall come easily by what others have labored hard for.~ Socrates ~
Let thy words be few.~ Ecclesiastes 5:2 from Words of Wisdom ~
What you are must always displease you, if you would attain to that which you are not.~ Saint Augustine ~
People seldom improve when they have no other model but themselves to copy.~ Oliver Goldsmith ~
The more sand that has escaped from the hourglass of our life, the clearer we should see through it.~ Jean Paul ~
The education of circumstances is superior to that of tuition.~ William Wordsworth ~
Thought is the seed of action.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Common sense in an uncommon degree is what the world calls wisdom.~ Samuel Taylor Coleridge ~
Genius begins great works; labor alone finishes them.~ Joseph Joubert ~
Never tell people how to do things. Tell them what to do and they will surprise you with their ingenuity.~ George Patton ~
By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.~ Confucius ~
Unity is a precious diamond.~ Holyday ~
Our plans miscarry because they have no aim. When a man does not know what harbor he is making for, no wind is the right wind.~ Seneca ~
We are all motivated by a keen desire for praise, and the better a man is, the more he is inspired to glory.~ Cicero ~
Who aims at excellence will be above mediocrity; who aims at mediocrity will be far short of it.~ Burmese Saying ~
There is no impossibility to him who stands prepared to conquer every hazard. The fearful are the failing.~ Sarah J. Hale ~
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again. Then quit. There's no use being a damn fool about it.~ W.C. Fields ~
Every man, as to character, is the creature of the age in which he lives. Very few are able to raise themselves above the ideas of their times.~ Voltaire ~
The rose is fairest when 't is budding new,*and hope is brightest when it dawns from fears.~ Walter Scott ~
Our greatest glory consist not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.~ Oliver Goldsmith ~
Success in the affairs of life often serves to hide one's abilities, whereas adversity frequently gives one an opportunity to discover them.~ Horace ~
No man is an island.~ John Donne ~
Hold yourself responsible for a higher standard than anyone else expects of you.*Never excuse yourself.~ Henry Ward Beecher ~
Life is like the dice that, falling, still show a different face. So life, though it remains the same, is always presenting different aspects.~ Alexis ~
It is always good to know, if only in passing, charming human beings. It refreshes one like flowers and woods and clear brooks.~ George Eliot ~
Never let the fear of striking out get in your way.~ George Herman 'Babe' Ruth ~
Be courteous to all, but intimate with few;*and let those be well-tried before you give them your confidence.~ George Washington ~
The man of virtue makes the difficulty to be overcome his first business, and success only a subsequent consideration.~ Confucius ~
There is no education like adversity.~ Benjamin Disraeli ~
The man of wisdom is never of two minds;*the man of benevolence never worries;*the man of courage is never afraid.~ Confucius ~
A good name will shine forever.~ Proverb ~
He who has never learned to obey*cannot be a good commander.~ Aristotle ~
Unrest of spirit is a mark of life; one problem after another presents itself and in the solving of them we can find our greatest pleasure.~ Kal Menninger ~
It has been my philosophy of life that difficulties vanish when faced boldly.~ Isaac Asimov ~
Nothing will ever be attempted if all possible objections must first be overcome.~ Samuel Johnson ~
The power of imagination makes us infinite.~ John Muir ~
Circumspection in calamity; mercy in greatness; good speeches in assemblies; fortitude in adversity: these are the self-attained perfections of great souls.~ Hitopadesa ~
Our destiny can be examined, but it cannot be justified or totally explained. We are simply here.~ Iris Murdoch ~
Let us follow our destiny, ebb and flow. Whatever may happen, we master fortune by accepting it.~ Virgil ~
Fate is character.~ William Winter ~
Men best show their character in trifles, where they are not on their guard. It is in the simplest habits, that we often see the boundless egotism which pays no regard to the feelings of others and denies nothing to itself.~ Arthur Schopenhauer ~
Remedy your deficiencies,*and your merits will take care of themselves.~ Edward Bulwer-Lytton ~
A wise man adapts himself to circumstances as water shapes itself to the vessel that contains it. ~ Chinese Proverb ~
To rejoice in another's prosperity, is to give content to your own lot: to mitigate another's grief, is to alleviate or dispel your own.~ Thomas Edwards ~
A wise man learns by the mistakes of others,*a fool by his own.~ Latin Proverb ~
Every ceiling, when reached, becomes a floor, upon which one walks as a matter of course and prescriptive right.~ Aldous Huxley ~
He knows the water best who has waded through it.~ Danish Proverb ~
The more a man knows, the more he forgives.~ Catherine the Great ~
What is defeat? Nothing but education; nothing but the first steps to something better.~ Proverb ~
Nature magically suits a man to his fortunes, by making them the fruit of his character.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Happy is the man who can do only one thing; in doing it, he fulfills his destiny.~ Joseph Joubert ~
The truest wisdom is a resolute determination.~ Napoleon Bonaparte ~
Wisdom is a sacred communion.~ Victor Hugo ~
Divide the fire and you will soon put it out.~ Greek Proverb ~
Wisdom is not wisdom when it is derived from books alone.~ Horace ~
Self-trust is the first secret of success.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Time is a file that wears and makes no noise.~ English Proverb ~
Hope is the dream of the waking man.~ French Proverb ~
Great men are the modellers, patterns, and in a wide sense creators, of whatsoever the general mass of men contrived to do and attain.~ Carlyle ~
Make it thy business to know thyself, which is the most difficult lesson in the world.~ Miguel de Cervantes ~
In this world man must either be anvil or hammer.~ Henry W. Longfellow ~
Our waking hours form the text of our lives, our dreams, the commentary.~ Anonymous ~
Wisdom is the reward you get for a lifetime of listening when you'd have preferred to talk.~ Doug Larson ~
Good fortune and bad are equally necessary to man, to fit him to meet the contingencies of this life.~ French Proverb ~
To conquer fear is the beginning of wisdom.~ Bertrand Russell ~
Do not anticipate trouble, or worry about what may never happen. Keep in the sunlight.~ Benjamin Franklin ~
Vigilance in watching opportunity; tact and daring in seizing upon opportunity; force and persistence in crowding opportunity to its utmost of possible achievement these are the martial virtues which must command success.~ Austin Phelps ~
The significance of a man is not in what he attains but in what he longs to attain.~ Kahlil Gibran ~
Experience teaches slowly, and at the cost of mistakes.~ James A. Froude ~
Character is higher than intellect. A great soul will be strong to live, as well as strong to think.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Misfortunes, untoward events, lay open, disclose the skill of a general, while success conceals his weakness, his weak points.~ Horace ~
Actions, looks, words and steps form the alphabet by which you may spell character.~ Johann Kasper Lavater ~
The ability to convert ideas to things is the secret to outward success.~ Henry Ward Beecher ~
No longer forward nor behind*I look in hope and fear;*But grateful take the good I find,*The best of now and here.~ John G. Whittier ~
Every artist was first an amateur.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
The greater a man is in power above others, the more he ought to excel them in virtue. None ought to govern who is not better than the governed.~ Publius Syrus ~
Success is the good fortune that comes from aspiration, desperation, perspiration and inspiration.~ Evan Esar ~
Every man is a damn fool for at least five minutes every day; wisdom consists in not exceeding the limit.~ Elbert Hubbard ~
Time is a physician which heals every grief.~ Diphilus ~
What chance gathers she easily scatters. A great person attracts great people and knows how to hold them together.~ Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe ~
If evil be said of thee, and if it be true, correct thyself; if it be a lie, laugh at it.~ Epictetus ~
Sow an act, and you reap a habit; sow a habit, and you reap a character; sow a character, and you reap a destiny.~ George Dana Boardman ~
He who has imagination without learning, has wings and no feet.~ Joseph Joubert ~
The essential thing is not knowledge, but character.~ Joseph Le Conte ~
Life is short, art long, opportunity fleeting, experience treacherous, judgment difficult.~ Hypocrites ~
He that will not reflect is a ruined man.~ Asian Proverb ~
Do not wait to strike till the iron is hot; but make it hot by striking.~ William B. Sprague ~
Everywhere man blames nature and fate, yet his fate is mostly but the echo of his character and passions, his mistakes and weaknesses.~ Democritus ~
Life has no smooth road for any of us; and in the bracing atmosphere of a high aim the very roughness stimulates the climber to steadier steps, till the legend, over steep ways to the stars, fulfills itself.~ W. C. Doane ~
Life is like a game of cards. The hand that is dealt you represents determinism; the way you play it is free will.~ Jawaharal Nehru ~
Wisdom is found only in truth.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ~
Learning sleeps and snores in libraries, but wisdom is everywhere, wide awake, on tiptoe.~ Josh Billings ~
A man's own good breeding is the best security against other people's ill manners.~ Lord Chesterfield ~
Many hands make light work.~ English Proverb ~
Look to be treated by others*as you have treated others.~ Publius Syrus ~
Does wisdom perhaps appear on the earth as a raven which is inspired by the smell of carrion?~ Friedrich Nietzsche ~
Talents are best nurtured in solitude. Character is best formed in the stormy billows of the world.~ Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe ~
What would life be if we had no courage to attempt anything?~ Vincent van Gogh ~
Do not forget small kindnesses and do not remember small faults.~ Chinese Proverb ~
Our greatest glory is not in never falling but in rising every time we fall.~ Confucius ~
A skillful man reads his dreams for self-knowledge, yet not the details but the quality.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
One who understands much displays a greater simplicity of character than one who understands little.~ Alexander Chase ~
It is interesting to notice how some minds seem almost to create themselves, springing up under every disadvantage, and working their solitary but irresistible way through a thousand obstacles.~ Washington Irving ~
The greatest results in life are usually attained by simple means and the exercise of ordinary qualities. These may for the most part be summed in these two: common-sense and perseverance.~ Owen Feltham ~
The best rules to form a young man are: to talk little, to hear much, to reflect alone upon what has passed in company, to distrust one's own opinions, and value others that deserve it.~ Sir William Temple ~
You must look into other people as well as at them. ~ Lord Chesterfield ~
When I can look life in the eyes, grown calm and very coldly wise, life will have given me the truth, and taken in exchange - my youth.~ Sara Teasdale ~
Change and growth take place when a person has risked himself and dares to become involved with experimenting with his own life.~ Herbert Otto ~
Your imagination is your preview of life's coming attractions.~ Albert Einstein ~
The destiny of man is in his own soul.~ Herodotus ~
Ill can he rule the great that cannot reach the small.~ Edmund Spenser ~
It is easier to be wise for others than for ourselves.~ Francois De La Rochefoucauld ~
Great effort from great motives is the best definition of a happy life.~ William Ellery Channing ~
He either fears his fate too much,*Or his deserts are small,*Who dares not put it to the touch*To gain or lose it all.~ Marquis of Montrose ~
We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, therefore,*is not an act but a habit.~ Aristotle ~
It is foolish to fear what you cannot avoid.*Stultum est timere quod vitare non potes.~ Publius Syrus ~
A good general not only sees the way to victory; he also knows when victory is impossible.~ Polybius ~
A bold onset is half the battle.~ Giuseppe Garibaldi ~
We are all inventors, each sailing out on a voyage of discovery, guided each by a private chart, of which there is no duplicate. The world is all gates, all opportunities.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Our destiny changes with our thoughts; we shall become what we wish to become, do what we wish to do, when our habitual thoughts correspond with our desires.~ Orison Swett Marden ~
Govern thy life and thoughts as if the whole world were to see the one, and read the other.~ Thomas Fuller ~
Exert your talents, and distinguish yourself, and don't think of retiring from the world, until the world will be sorry that you retire.~ Samuel Johnson ~
No man is good enough to govern another man without that other's consent.~ Abraham Lincoln ~
Inspiration and genius--one and the same.~ Victor Hugo ~
Many only learns in two ways, one by reading, and the other by association with smarter people.~ Will Rogers ~
You're happiest while you're making the greatest contribution.~ Robert F. Kennedy ~
I have yet to hear a man ask for advice on how to combine marriage and a career.~ Gloria Steinem from ~
Who is the happiest of men? He who values the merits of others, and in their pleasure takes joy, even as though 'twere his own.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ~
Times of great calamity and confusion have ever been productive of the greatest minds. The purest ore is produced from the hottest furnace, and the brightest thunderbolt is elicited from the darkest storm.~ Charles Caleb Colton ~
Nature and wisdom never are at strife.~ Plutarch ~
What progress, you ask, have I made? I have begun to be a friend to myself.~ Hecato, Greek philosopher ~
Failure teaches success.~ Japanese Saying ~
To climb steep hills requires a slow pace at first.~ Shakespeare ~
A wise man will make more opportunities than he finds.~ Francis Bacon ~
A man who dares waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.~ Charles Darwin ~
It is idle to dread what you cannot avoid.~ Publius Syrus ~
The more you say, the less people remember.~ Francois Fenelon ~
He who hesitates is lost.~ Proverb ~
It is absurd that a man should rule others, who cannot rule himself. (Absurdum est ut alios regat, qui seipsum regere nescit.)~ Latin Proverb ~
Wisdom stands at the turn in the road and calls upon us publicly, but we consider it false and despise its adherents.~ Kahlil Gibran ~
It is not enough to take steps which may some day lead to a goal; each step must be itself a goal and a step likewise.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ~
Wisdom is knowing what to do next; virtue is doing it.~ David Starr Jordan ~
A general is just as good or just as bad as the troops under his command make him.~ General Douglas MacArthur ~
If we do not plant knowledge when young, it will give us no shade when we are old.~ Lord Chesterfield ~
Work spares us from three evils: boredom, vice, and need.~ Voltaire ~
Take calculated risks. That is quite different from being rash.~ George S. Patton ~
There is a wisdom of the head, and a wisdom of the heart.~ Charles Dickens ~
The greatest men sometimes overshoot themselves, but then their very mistakes are so many lessons of instruction.~ Tom Browne ~
When was ever honey made with one bee in a hive?~ Thomas Hood ~
Never let life's hardships disturb you ... no one can avoid problems, not even saints or sages.~ Nichiren Daishonen ~
In seeking wisdom thou art wise; in imagining that thou hast attained it - thou art a fool.~ Lord Chesterfield ~
The older I grow the more I distrust the familiar doctrine that age brings wisdom.~ H. L. Mencken ~
Wisdom begins at the end.~ Daniel Webster ~
The laws of science do not distinguish between the past and the future.~ Steven W. Hawking ~
Destiny is not a matter of chance; but a matter of choice. It is not a thing to be waited for, It is a thing to be acheived.~ William Jennings Bryan ~
All misfortune is but a stepping stone to fortune.~ Henry David Thoreau ~
Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined.~ Henry David Thoreau ~
Difficulties, by bracing the mind to overcome them, assist cheerfulness, as exercise assists digestion.~ Christian Nestell Bovee ~
The searching-out and thorough investigation of truth ought to be the primary study of man.~ Cicero ~
I have spread my dreams beneath your feet. Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.~ W.B. Yeats ~
One cannot manage too many affairs: like pumpkins in the water, one pops up while you try to hold down the other.~ Chinese Proverb ~
Life's a voyage that's homeward bound.~ Herman Melville ~
Such as are thy habitual thoughts, such also will be the character of thy mind; for the soul is dyed by the thoughts.~ Marcus Aurelius ~
A strong imagination begetteth opportunity.~ Michel de Montaigne ~
Happiness depends more on the inward disposition of mind than on outward circumstances.~ Benjamin Franklin ~
A man begins cutting his wisdom teeth the first time he bites off more than he can chew.~ Herb Caen ~
Experience is a safe light to walk by, and he is not a rash man who expects to succeed in future from the same means which have secured it in times past.~ Wendell Phillips ~
No man can stand on top because he is put there.~ H. H. Vreeland ~
Life is either a daring adventure or nothing.~ Helen Keller ~
He who know most grieves most for wasted time.~ Dante ~
You cannot dream yourself into a character; you must hammer and forge yourself one.~ Henry David Thoreau ~
Happiness resides not in posessions and not in gold; the feeling of happiness dwells in the soul.~ Democritus ~
A prudent question is one-half of wisdom.~ Francis Bacon ~
Never lose a chance of saying a kind word.~ William Thackeray ~
The best way to make your dreams come true is to wake up.~ Paul Valery ~
He dares to be a fool, and that is the first step in the direction of wisdom.~ James Huneker ~
Three, helping one another, bear the burden of six.~ Latin Proverb ~
Of all parts of wisdom the practice is the best.~ John Tillotson ~
Try not to become a man of success but a man of value.~ Albert Einstein ~
The young man knows the rules, but the old man knows the exceptions.~ Oliver Wendell Holmes ~
Those that make the best use of their time have none to spare.~ Thomas Fuller ~
Knowledge of what is possible is the beginning of happiness.~ George Santayana ~
To do two things at once is to do neither.~ Publius Syrus ~
If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of giants.~ Isaac Newton ~
Experience is a grindstone; and it is lucky for us, if we can get brightened by it, and not ground.~ Josh Billings ~
Wisdom doesn't necessarily come with age. Sometimes age just shows up all by itself.~ Tom Wilson ~
Yes, know thyself: in great concerns or small,*Be this thy care, for this, my friend, is all.~ Juvenal ~
The history of the world is but the biography of great men.~ Thomas Carlyle ~
In everything the ends well defined are the secret of durable success.~ Victor Cousins ~
Happiness does not consist in pastimes and amusements but in virtuous activities.~ Aristotle ~
Turn your wounds into wisdom.~ Oprah Winfrey ~
Take care of the minutes and the hours will take care of themselves.~ Lord Chesterfield ~
As I grow to understand life less and less,*I learn to love it more and more.~ Jules Renard ~
The way to gain a good reputation, is to endeavor to be what you desire to appear. ~ Socrates ~
Learn to regard the souls around you as parts of some grand instrument. It is for each of us to know the keys and stops, that we may draw forth the harmonies that He sleeping in the silent octaves.~ Anonymous ~
He who cannot help many hinders.~ German Proverb ~
Look not mournfully into the past, it comes not back again. Wisely improve the present, it is thine. Go forth to meet the shadowy future without fear and with a manly heart.~ Henry Wadsworth Longfellow ~
There go the people. I must follow them for I am their leader.~ Alexandre Ledru-Rollin ~
Every day do something that will inch you closer to a better tomorrow.~ Doug Firebaugh ~
The real leader has no need to lead--*he is content to point the way.~ Henry Miller ~
It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed.~ Theodore Roosevelt ~
Happiness is not a matter of events, it depends upon the tides of the mind.~ Alice Meynell ~
Let us believe neither half of the good people tell us of ourselves, nor half of the evil they say of others.~ J. Petit Senn ~
The art of being wise is the art of knowing what to overlook.~ William James ~
Life is a succession of lessons which must be lived to be understood.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Our life's a stage, a comedy: either learn to play and take it lightly, or bear its troubles patiently.~ Palladas ~
Dreams are the touchstones of our character.~ Henry David Thoreau ~
Happiness consists in activity: such is the constitution of our nature; it is a running stream, and not a stagnant pool.~ John M. Good ~
Problems are only opportunities in work clothes.~ Henry J. Kaiser ~
Goals are the fuel in the furnace of achievement.~ Brian Tracy, Eat that Frog ~
Experience is by industry achieved*And perfected by the swift course of time.~ William Shakespeare ~
Never does nature say one thing and wisdom another.~ Juvenal ~
Go back a little to leap further.~ John Clarke ~
In absence of clearly defined goals, we become strangely loyal to performing daily acts of trivia.~ Author Unknown ~
He who sedulously attends, pointedly asks, calmly speaks, coolly answers and ceases when he has no more to say is in possession of some of the best requisites of man.~ Johann Casper Lavater ~
Life is a tragedy for those who feel, and a comedy for those who think.~ La Bruyere ~
Any one can hold the helm when the sea is calm.~ Publilius Syrus ~
No one can possibly achieve any real and lasting success or 'get rich' in business by being a conformist.~ J. Paul Getty ~
Character is, for the most part,*simply habit become fixed.~ C. H. Parkhurst ~
The secret of success is to know something nobody else knows.~ Aristotle Onassis ~
Difficulties strengthen the mind,*as well as labor does the body.~ Seneca ~
Follow your honest convictions, and stay strong.~ William Thackeray ~
In the stormy current of life characters are weights or floats which at one time make us glide along the bottom, and at another maintain us on the surface.~ Hippolyte Taine ~
The only medicine for suffering, crime, and all the other woes of mankind, is wisdom.~ Thomas Huxley ~
You may as well borrow a person's money as his time.~ Horace Mann ~
Talents are best nurtured in solitude, but character is best formed in the stormy billows of the world.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ~
You cannot plough a field by*turning it over in your mind.~ Author Unknown ~
Our doubts are traitors, and make us lose the good we oft might win, by fearing to attempt.~ William Shakespeare ~
A leader is a dealer in hope.~ Napoleon Bonaparte ~
Experience is a jewel, and it had need be so, for it is often purchased at an infinite rate.~ William Shakespeare ~
Life is like a library owned by the author.*In it are a few books which he wrote himself,*but most of them were written for him.~ Harry Emerson Fosdick ~
After the game,*the king and the pawn go into the same box.~ Italian Proverb ~
The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.~ Lao Tzu ~
The seat of knowledge is in the head, of wisdom,*in the heart.~ William Hazlitt ~
Commitment leads to action. Action brings your dream closer.~ Marcia Wieder ~
Time and tide wait for no man.~ Geoffrey Chaucer ~
No road is too long for him who advances slowly and does not hurry, and no attainment is beyond his reach who equips himself with patience to achieve it.~ Jean de La Bruyre ~
To find what you seek in the road of life,*the best proverb of all is that which says:*'Leave no stone unturned.'~ Edward Bulwer Lytton ~
There are no classes in life for beginners: right away you are always asked to deal with what is most difficult.~ Rainer Maria Rilke ~
There is nothing noble about being superior to some other man. The true nobility is in being superior to your previous self.~ Hindu Proverb ~
A man's happiness or unhappiness depends as much on his temperament as on his destiny.~ Francois de La Rochefoucauld ~
When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion.~ Ethiopian Proverb ~
They fail, and they alone, who have not striven.~ Thomas Bailey Aldrich ~
The middle course is the best.~ Cleobulus ~
A wretched soul, bruis'd with adversity,*We bid be quiet, when we hear it cry;*But were we burthen'd with like weight of pain,*As much, or more, we should ourselves complain.~ William Shakespeare  ~
There is only one success--to be able to spend your life in your own way.~ Christopher Morley ~
Live up to the best that is in you: Live noble lives, as you all may, in whatever condition you may find yourselves.~ Henry W. Longfellow ~
Solitude is as needful to the imagination as society is wholesome for the character.~ James Russel Lowell ~
Let us be of good cheer, remembering that the misfortunes hardest to bear are those that never happen.~ James Russel Lowell ~
Impatience never commanded success.~ Edwin H. Chapin ~
I never think of the future - it comes soon enough.~ Albert Einstein ~
Men's best successes come after their disappointments.~ Henry Ward Beecher. ~
A failure is a man who has blundered, but is not able to cash in on the experience.~ Elbert Hubbard ~
The happiness of life is made up of minute fractions, the little soon-forgotten charities of a kiss, a smile, a kind look, a heart felt compliment in the disguise of a playful raillery, and the countless other infinitessimals of pleasurable thought and genial feeling.~ Samuel Taylor Coleridge ~
It is impossible to imagine anything which better becomes a ruler than mercy.~ Seneca ~
Knowing is not enough; we must apply.*Willing is not enough; we must do.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ~
Fortune favors the brave.~ Publius Terence ~
Thus each person by his fears gives wings to rumor, and, without any real source of apprehension, men fear what they themselves have imagined.~ Lucan ~
It is astonishing with how little wisdom mankind can be governed, when that little wisdom is its own.~ William Ralph Inge ~
We can always redeem the man who aspires and strives.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ~
You will never 'find' time for anything. If you want time, you must make it.~ Charles Bruxton ~
If you would create something,*you must be something.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ~
Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.~ Albert Einstein ~
Not the maker of plans and promises, but rather the one who offers faithful service in small matters. This is the person who is most likely to achieve what is good and lasting.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ~
A gentleman can withstand hardships; it is only the small man who, when submitted to them, is swept off his feet.~ Confucius ~
I was never afraid of failure, for I would sooner fail than not be among the best.~ John Keats ~
If you have great talents, industry will improve them; If moderate abilities, industry will supply their deficiencies. Nothing is denied to well-directed labor: nothing is ever to be attained without it.~ Sir Joshua Reynolds ~
Prosperity is a great teacher; adversity a greater.~ William Hazlitt ~
Look up and not down; look forward and not back; look out and not in; and lend a hand.~ E. E. Hale ~
Every failure brings with it the seed of an equivalent success.~ Napoleon Hill ~
The wisdom of the wise and the experience of the ages are perpetuated by quotations.~ Benjamin Disraeli ~
It is good to rub and polish our brains against that of others.~ Michel de Montaigne ~
Let us not say, Every man is the architect of his own fortune; but let us say, Every man is the architect of his own character.~ George Dana Boardman ~
Years teach us more than books.~ Berthold Auerbach ~
What are the aims which are at the same time duties? They are perfecting of ourselves, the happiness of others.~ Immanuel Kant ~
Those who believe they are exclusively in the right are generally those who achieve something.~ Aldous Huxley ~
Most of the shadows of this life are caused by our standing in our own sunshine.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Industry is the parent of success.~ Spanish Proverb ~
Experience is the child of thought, and thought is the child of action. We cannot learn men from books.~ Benjamin Disraeli ~
Adversity is wont to reveal genius, prosperity to hide it.~ Horace ~
Be your character what it will, it will be known, and nobody will take it upon your word.~ Lord Chesterfield ~
Dost thou love life?*Then do not squander time,*for that is the stuff life is made of.~ Benjamin Franklin ~
Lots of things that couldn't be done have been done.~ Charles Auston Bates ~
Be not afraid of greatness: some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.~ William Shakespeare  ~
The ability to concentrate and to use your time well is everything if you want to succeed in business--or almost anywhere else for that matter.~ Lee Iacocca ~
The safest principle through life, instead of reforming others, is to set about perfecting yourself.~ B. R. Haydon ~
It is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things.~ Henry David Thoreau ~
The geat blessing of mankind are within us and within our reach; but we shut our eyes, and like people in the dark, we fall foul upon the very thing we search for, without finding it.~ Seneca(7 B.C. - 65 A.D.) ~
Heaven ne'er helps the man who will not help himself.~ Sophocles ~
The secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportunity when it comes.~ Earl of Beaconsfield ~
The power is detested, and miserable the life, of him who wishes to be feared rather than to be loved.~ Cornelius Nepos ~
A good deed is never lost: he who sows courtesy reaps friendship; and he who plants kindness gathers love.~ Basil ~
Adapt yourself to the life you have been given; and truly love the people with whom destiny has surrounded you.~ Marcus Aurelius ~
The gem cannot be polished without friction, nor man be perfected without trials.~ Danish Proverb ~
Nothing contributes so much to tranquilize the mind as a steady purpose--*a point on which the soul may fix its intellectual eye.~ Mary Shelley ~
The rays of happiness, like those of light, are colorless when unbroken.~ Henry W. Longfellow ~
It is the trouble that never comes that causes the loss of sleep.~ Chas. Austin Bates ~
I attempt an arduous task; but there is no worth in that which is not a difficult achievement.~ Ovid ~
No great man ever complains of want of opportunities.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Winning isn't everything, but wanting to win is.~ Vince Lombardi ~
God ever works with those who work with will.~ Aeschylus ~
The best way to prepare for life is to begin to live.~ Elbert Hubbard ~
I light my candle from their torches.~ Robert Burton ~
If you wish success in life, make perseverance your bosom friend, experience your wise counselor, caution your elder brother, and hope your guardian genius.~ Jospeph Addison ~
The acts of this life are the destiny of the next. He hath no leisure who uses it not. He that will not reflect is a ruined man.~ Eastern Proverb ~
Thomas Edison dreamed of a lamp that could be operated by electricity, began where he stood to put his dream into action, and despite more than ten thousand failures, he stood by that dream until he made it a physical reality. Practical dreamers do not quit.~ Napoleon Hill ~
Let he him who would be moved to convince others, be first moved to convince himself.~ Thomas Carlyle ~
Wisdom is the supreme part of happiness.~ Sophocles ~
We also deem those happy, who from the experience of life, have learned to bear its ills and without descanting on their weight.~ Junvenal ~
Every man is a volume if you know how to read him.~ William Ellery Channing ~
Fractures well cured make us more strong.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in no other, and scarce in that; for it is true we may give advice, but we cannot give conduct.~ Benjamin Franklin ~
A man should have any number of little aims about which he should be conscious and for which he should have names, but he should have neither name for, nor consciousness concerning, the main aim of his life.~ Samuel Butler ~
Discontent is the source of all trouble,*but also of all progress, in individuals and nations.~ Berthold Auerbach ~
Wherever we look upon this earth, the opportunities take shape within the problems.~ Nelson A. Rockefeller ~
When it is dark enough, you can see the stars.~ Persian Proverb ~
Imagine every day to be the last of a life surrounded with hopes, cares, anger and fear. The hours that come unexpectedly will be much the more grateful.~ Horace ~
It is good to learn what to avoid by studying the misfortunes of others.~ Publius Syrius ~
Slumber not in the tents of your fathers! The world is advancing. Advance with it!~ Mazzini ~
Along with success comes a reputation for wisdom.~ Euripides ~
The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.~ Martin Luther King, Jr. ~
Knowing yourself is the beginning of all wisdom.~ Aristotle ~
Be just, and fear not.*Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's,*Thy God's and truth's.~ William Shakespeare ~
One right and honest definition of business is mutual helpfulness.~ William Feather ~
It is a mistake to look too far ahead. Only one link of the chain of destiny can be handled at a time. ~ Winston Churchill ~
Patience is the companion of wisdom.~ Saint Augustine ~
Happy are those who dream dreams and are ready to pay the price to make them come true.~ Leon J. Suenes ~
Know thyself means this, that you get acquainted with what you know, and what you can do.~ Menander ~
The best way out is always through.~ Robert Frost ~
All men dream but not equally. Those who dream by night in the dusty recesses of their minds wake in the day to find that it was vanity; but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, for they may act their dream with open eyes to make it possible.~ T.E. Lawrence ~
Happiness is not achieved by the conscious pursuit of happiness; it is generally the by-product of other activities.~ Aldous Huxley ~
Arguing with a fool proves there are two.~ Doris M. Smith ~
Fear less, hope more, eat less, chew more, whine less, breathe more, talk less, say more, hate less, love more, and good things will be yours.~ Swedish Proverb ~
The tissue of life to be we weave with colors all our own,*And in the field of destiny we reap as we have sown.~ John Greenleaf Whittier ~
Obstacles are great incentives.~ Jules Michelet ~
It is not work that kills men, it is worry. Work is healthy; you can hardly put more on a man than he can bear. But worry is rust upon the blade. It is not movement that destroys the machinery, but friction.~ Henry Ward Beecher ~
There are two things to aim at in life; first to get what you want, and after that to enjoy it. Only the wisest of mankind has achieved the second.~ Logan Pearsall Smith ~
He who has learned how to obey will know how to command.~ Solon ~
Dreams seldom materialize on their own.~ Dian Fossey ~
Silence does not always mark wisdom.~ Samuel Taylor Coleridge. ~
Time is but the stream I go a-fishin in.~ Henry David Thoreau ~
Time is money.~ Benjamin Franklin ~
I do not cast my eyes away from my troubles. I pack them in as little compass as I can for myself, and never let them annoy others.~ Robert Southey ~
When I give a minister an order, I leave it to him to find the means to carry it out.~ Napoleon Bonaparte ~
Life is a pure flame,*and we live by an invisible sun within us.~ Sir Thomas Brown ~
It is the want of diligence, rather than the want of means, that causes most failures.~ Alfred Mercier ~
The boundaries which divide life from death*are at best shadowy and vague.*Who shall say where one ends,*and the other begins?~ Edgar Alan Poe ~
Nothing can stop the man with the right mental attitude from achieving his goal; nothing on earth can help the man with the wrong mental attitude.~ Thomas Jefferson ~
Success does not consist in never making blunders, but in never making the same one a second time.~ Josh Billings ~
If you would know the road ahead, ask someone who has traveled it.~ Chinese Proverb ~
To live is like to love--all reason is against it, and all healthy instinct for it.~ Samuel Butler ~
Memory is the mother of all wisdom.~ Aeschylus ~
The more difficulties one has to encounter, within and without, the more significant and the higher in inspiration his life will be.~ Horace Bushnell ~
We are either progressing or retrograding all the while; there is no such thing as remaining stationary in this life.~ James Freeman Clarke ~
In the midst of winter, I found there was within me an invincible summer.~ Albert Careb ~
United we stand, divided we fall.~ Aesop ~
Not to know at large of things remote*From use, obscure and subtle, but to know*That which before us lies in daily life,*Is the prime wisdom.~ John Milton ~
Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers.~ Alfred Lord Tennyson ~
Experience is by industry achieved, And perfected by the swift course of time.~ William Shakespeare ~
Action may not always bring happiness;*but there is no happiness without action.~ Benjamin Disraeli ~
Do we not all agree to call rapid thought and noble impulse by the name of inspiration?~ George Eliot ~
The wisdom of the wise is an uncommon degree of common sense.~ Dean Inge ~
The doors of wisdom are never shut.~ Benjamin Franklin ~
Life can be pulled by goals just as surely as it can be pushed by drives.~ Viktor Frankl ~
Shallow men believe in luck, strong men believe in cause and effect.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Everybody wants to be somebody;*nobody wants to grow.~ Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ~
Insist on yourself. Never imitate.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
The experience of others adds to our knowledge, but not to our wisdom; that is dearer bought.~ Hosea Ballou ~
The wisdom of nations lies in their proverbs,*which are brief and pithy.~ William Penn ~
If we would see the color of our future, we must look for it in our present; if we would gaze on the star of our destiny, we must look for it in our hearts.~ Canon Farrar ~
Leadership does not always wear the harness of compromise.~ Woodrow Wilson ~
Practice yourself in little things, and thence proceed to greater.~ Epictetus ~
Every man has his own destiny; the only imperative is to follow it, to accept it, no matter where it leads him.~ Henry Miller ~
That learning which thou gettest by thy own observation and experience, is far beyond that which thou gettest by precept; as the knowledge of a traveler exceeds that which is got by reading.~ Thomas Kempis ~
The winds and the waves are always on the side of the ablest navigators.~ Edward Gibbon ~
If we all did the things we are capable of,*we would astound ourselves.~ Thomas Edison ~
A willing helper does not wait until he is asked.~ Danish Proverb ~
The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.~ Socrates ~
All this worldly wisdom was once the unamiable heresy of some wise man.~ Henry David Thoreau ~
Never part without loving words to think of during your absence. It may be that you will not meet again in this life.~ Jean Paul Richter ~
What you dislike in another take care to correct in yourself.~ Thomas Sprat ~
One way to get the most out of life is*to look upon it as an adventure.~ William Feather ~
Present fears are less than horrible imaginings.~ William Shakespeare ~
It requires wisdom to understand wisdom: the music is nothing if the audience is deaf.~ Walter Lippmann ~
The fact is, that to do anything in the world worth doing, we must not stand back shivering and thinking of the cold and danger, but jump in and scramble through as well as we can.~ Robert Cushing ~
The end of wisdom is to dream high enough not to lose the dream in the seeking of it.~ William Faulkner ~
The highest purpose of intellectual cultivation is to give a man a perfect knowledge and mastery of his own inner self; to render our consciousness its own light and its own mirror.~ Frederich Leopold von Hardenberg ~
Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
All experience is an arch to build upon.~ Henry Brook Adams ~
If your actions inspire others to dream more,*learn more, do more and become more,*you are a leader.~ John Quincy Adams ~
No man was ever wise by chance.~ Lucius Annaeus Seneca ~
Happiness grows at our own firesides, and is not to be picked in strangers' gardens.~ Douglas Jerrold ~
The soul of conversation is sympathy.~ Thomas Campbell ~
Character and personal force are the only investments that are worth anything.~ Walt Whitman ~
For hope is but the dream*of those that wake.~ Matthew Prior ~
We are made wise not by the recollection of our past, but by the responsibility for our future.~ George Bernard Shaw ~
Fortify yourself with contentment, for this is an impregnable fortress.~ Epictetus ~
Never neglect an opportunity for improvement.~ Sir William Jones ~
Constant dripping hollows out a stone.~ Lucretius ~
The mind that is anxious about future events is miserable.~ Seneca ~
There is no failure except in no longer trying.~ Elbert Hubbard ~
He that is down needs fear no fall.~ John Bunyan ~
It is of little traits that the greatest human character is composed.~ William Winter ~
Spare moments are the gold dust of time.~ Bishop Hail ~
Experience is not what happens to a man: it is what a man does with what happens to him.~ Aldous Huxley ~
Men are more mindful of wrongs than of benefits.~ Proverb ~
In learning to know other things, and other minds, we become more intimately acquainted with ourselves, and are to ourselves better worth knowing.~ Philip Gilbert Hamilton ~
Thrift of time will repay you in after-life with a thousandfold of profit beyond your most sanguine dreams.~ William E. Gladstone ~
Make use of time, let not advantage slip.~ William Shakespeare ~
Little minds are tamed and subdued by misfortunes; but great minds rise above them.~ Washington Irving ~
Failures do what is tension relieving,*while winners do what is goal achieving.~ Dennis Waitley ~
The great and glorious masterpiece of man is to know how to live to purpose.~ Michel de Montaigne ~
Hear the meaning within the word.~ William Shakespeare ~
Happiness is where we find it, but rarely where we seek it.~ J. Petit Senn ~
People sometimes attribute my success to my genius; all the genius I know anything about is hard work.~ Alexander Hamilton ~
What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
In many things it is not well to say, 'Know thyself'; it is better to say, 'Know others.'~ Menander ~
I have learned to seek my happiness by limiting my desires, rather than attempting to satisfy them.~ John Stuart Mills ~
By associating with wise people you will become wise yourself.~ Menander ~
We are far more liable to catch the vices than the virtues of our associates.~ Denis Diderot ~
Time in its aging course teaches all things.~ Aeschylus ~
Some folks are wise and some are otherwise.~ Tobias Smollett ~
The only journey is the journey within.~ Rainer Maria Rilke ~
Surely there is something in the unruffled calm of nature that overawes our little anxieties and doubts; the sight of the deep-blue sky and the clustering stars above seems to impart a quiet to the mind.~ Jonathan Edwards ~
Charity, good behaviour, amiable speech, unselfishness these by the chief sage have been declared the elements of popularity.~ Burmese Proverb ~
To unpathed waters, undreamed shores.~ William Shakepeare ~
In prosperity, our friends know us; in adversity, we know our friends.~ John Churton Collins ~
Don't bunt. Aim out of the ballpark.~ David Ogilvy ~
How much pain have cost us the evils that have never happened.~ Thomas Jefferson ~
The talent of success is nothing more than doing what you can do, well.~ Henry W. Longfellow ~
Enjoy the present day, as distrusting that which is to follow.~ Horace ~
Our ideas, like orange-plants, spread out in proportion to the size of the box which imprisons the roots.~ Edward Bulwer Lytton ~
He lives long that lives well; and time misspent is not lived but lost.~ Thomas Fuller ~
The first step in the acquisition of wisdom is silence, the second listening, the third memory, the fourth practice, the fifth teaching others.~ Solomon Ibn Gabriol ~
When one door of happiness closes, another opens, but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one that has been opened for us.~ Helen Keller ~
Far away in the sunshine are my highest aspirations. I may not reach them, but I can look up and see their beauty, believe in them, and try to follow where they lead.~ Louisa May Alcott ~
A moment's insight is sometimes worth a life's experience.~ Oliver Wendall Holmes ~
If you do not hope, you will not find what is beyond your hopes.~ St. Clement of Alexandra ~
Your real influence is measured by your treatment of yourself.~ A. Bronson Alcott ~
To be a great leader and so always master of the situation, one must of necessity have been a great thinker in action. An eagle was never yet hatched from a goose's egg.~ James Thomas ~
The thing always happens that you really believe in; and the belief in a thing makes it happen.~ Frank Loyd Wright ~
It requires less character to discover the faults of others than is does to tolerate them.~ J. Petit Senn ~
Love nothing but that which comes to you woven in the pattern of your destiny. For what could more aptly fit your needs?~ Marcus Aurelius ~
You must know for which harbor you are headed if you are to catch the right wind to take you there.~ Seneca ~
The secret of many a man's success in the world resides in his insight into the moods of men and his tact in dealing with them.~ J. G. Holland ~
Hold fast to dreams, for if dreams die, life is a broken winged bird that cannot fly.~ Lanston Hughes ~
The more business a man has to do, the more he is able to accomplish, for he learns to economize his time.~ Sir Matthew Hale ~
No man was ever wise by chance.~ Seneca ~
There is only one person who could ever make you happy, and that person is you.~ David Burns, Intimate Connections ~
In this world a man must either be an anvil or hammer.~ Henry W. Longfellow ~
Let us strive to improve ourselves, for we cannot remain stationary; one either progresses or retrogrades.~ Mme. Du Deffand ~
Nine-tenths of wisdom is being wise in time.~ Theodore Roosevelt ~
Success is sweet, the sweeter if long delayed and attained through maulfold struggles and defeats.~ A. Bronson Alcott ~
Where there is no vision, the people perish.~ Proverbs 29:18 ~
How prone to doubt, how cautious are the wise!~ Homer ~
One life - a little gleam of time between two eternities.~ Thomas Carlyle ~
Little minds are tamed and subdued by misfortune, but great minds rise above them.~ Washington Irving ~
Leadership: The art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he wants to do it.~ Dwight D. Eisenhower ~
Seek the lofty by reading, hearing and seeing great work at some moment every day.~ Thornton Wilder ~
No man is happy who does not think himself so.~ Publilius Syrus ~
Our minds are as different as our faces: we are all traveling to one destination; --happiness; but few are going by the same road.~ Charles Caleb Colton It was a high counsel that I once heard given to a young person, 'Always do what you are afraid to do.'~ Ralph Waldo Emerson ~
Experience is the universal mother of sciences.~ Miguel de Cervantes ~
No general can fight his battles alone. He must depend upon his lieutenants, and his success depends upon his ability to select the right man for the right place.~ Philip Armour ~
Everyone has naturally the power of excelling in some one thing.~ Proverb ~
Sweet are the uses of adversity,*Which like the toad, ugly and venomous,*Wears yet a precious jewel in his head.~ William Shakespeare ~
We make our fortunes, and we call them fate.~ Earl of Beaconsfield ~
Much we learn only to forget it again; to stand by the goal, we must traverse all the way to it.~ Rckert ~
Reputation is for time; character is for eternity.~ J. B. Gough ~
Effort only fully releases its reward after a person refuses to quit.~ Napoleon Hill ~
A man who finds no satisfaction in himself will seek for it in vain elsewhere.~ La Rochefoucauld ~
Every man has in himself a continent of undiscovered character. Happy is he who acts as the Columbus to his own soul.~ Sir J. Stephen ~
Wisdom outweighs any wealth.~ Sophocles ~
Happiness depends upon ourselves.~ Aristotle ~
Cleverness is not wisdom.~ Euripides ~
Without inspiration the best powers of the mind remain dormant, they is a fuel in us which needs to be ignited with sparks.~ Johann Gottfried Von Herder ~
We only become what we are by the radical and deep-seated refusal of that which others have made of us.~ Jean-Paul Sartre ~
If you don't know where you are going, you'll end up some place else.~ Yogi Berra ~
People with many interests live, not only longest, but happiest.~ George Matthew Allen ~
Try to be happy in this present moment, and put not off being so to a time to come, as though that time should be of another make from this which has already come and is ours.~ Thomas Fuller ~
I cannot give you the formula for success, but I can give you the formula for failure--which is:*Try to please everybody.~ Herbert Bayard Swope ~
It is the surmounting of difficulties that make heroes.~ Louis Kossuth ~
Heed the still small voice that so seldom leads us wrong, and never into folly.~ Marquise du Deffand ~
Wisdom is the quality that keeps you from getting into situations where you need it.~ Doug Larson ~
You are what your deep, driving desire is.*As your desire is, so is your will.*As your will is, so is your deed.*As your deed is, so is your destiny.~ Brihadaranyaka Upanishad IV 4.5 ~
To be happy, we must not be too concerned with others.~ Albert Camus ~
It requires less character to discover the faults of others, than to tolerate them.~ J. Petit Senn ~
Reputation is what men and women think of us; character is what God and angels know of us.~ Thomas Paine ~
A loving heart is the truest wisdom.~ Charles Dickens ~
The only way of finding the limits of the possible is by going beyond them into the impossible.~ Arthur C. Clarke ~
Failures do what is tension relieving, while winners do what is goal achieving.~ Dennis Waitley ~
If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be.*Now put foundations under them.~ Henry David Thoreau ~
Disappointments are to the soul what thunderstorms are to the air.~ Johann C. F. von Schiller ~
What you cannot enforce*Do not command.~ Sophocles ~
Life is a rich strain of music, suggesting a realm too fair to be.~ George William Curtis ~