When you blush, your stomach lining also reddens.
Both George Washington and Thomas Jefferson grew cannabis sativa (marijuana) on their plantations.
Each year industrial, household cleaning, gardening, and automotive products are added as water pollutants. About 65,000 chemicals are used commercially in the United States today, with about 1,000 new ones added each year. Only about 300 have been extensively tested for toxicity.
The Nile River in Africa is the longest river (6,825 kilometers) of the earth.
An apple tree is at its prime when it is about 50 years old. The United States produces about 100 million barrels of apples a year. That's a lot of old trees.
The Persian Gulf is the warmest sea. In the summer its temperature reaches 35.6 degrees centigrade.
The brain uses more than 25% of the oxygen used by the human body.
Louisiana loses about 30 square miles (78 square kilometers) of land each year to coastal erosion, hurricanes, other natural and human causes and a thing called subsidence, which means sinking.
American Roy Sullivan has been struck by lighting a record seven times.
An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain.
The longest living cells in the body are brain cells which can live an entire lifetime.
Trees improve water quality by slowing and filtering rain water, as well as protecting aquifers and watersheds.
Asparagus is a member of the lily family, which also includes onions, leeks, and garlic,  but asparagus has a unique mild flavor, nothing like the flavor of its onion cousins.
Onions contain a mild antibiotic that fights infections, soothes burns, tames bee stings and relieves the itch of athletes foot.
The shark has to keep moving to stay alive.
Belcher's sea snakeThe most poisonous snake in the world is Belcher's Sea Snake or the Faint-banded Sea Snake (Hydrophis belcheri).
While only 2% in weight, the human brain requires 15% of the body's heart work, 20% of oxygen and 25% of all glucose.
For each minute of the day, 1 billion tons of rain falls on the Earth.
Grapes and clematis have stems that climb with tendrils, which hold onto a surface, as the stems get longer.
The world's smallest flowering plant is the Wolffia, whose one full bouquet of flowers can fit on the head of a push-pin.
Scientists turn up as many as 10,000 new species of insects every year.
Animals may perish when the oil slicks their fur or downy feathers, decreasing the surface area so they are no longer insulated from the cold water. Or the animals may ingest the oil, then become sick or unable to reproduce properly.
The world's termites outweigh the world's humans 10 to 1.
Morphine was given its name in 1803 by the discoverer, a 20 year old German pharmacist named Friedrich Saturner. He named it after Morpheus, the Greek god of dreams.
According to the United States Department of Agriculture, the best time to spray household insects is 4:00 p.m. Insects are most vulnerable at this time.
One pound of tea can make 300 cups of the beverage.
If two flies were left to reproduce without predators or other limitations for one year, the resulting mass of flies would be the size of the Earth.
Snakes are true carnivorous because they eat nothing but other animals. They do not eat any type of plant material.
A notch in a tree will remain the same distance from the ground as the tree grows.
The common goldfish is the only animal that can see both infra-red and ultra-violet light.
Dolphins cannot stay long underwater because they breathe through their blowholes above water. S
Other vegetables high in carotenoids are carrots, spinach, sweet potatoes, and collard greens.
Laika (dog) became the world's first space traveler. Russian scientists sent the small animal aloft in an artificial earth satellite in 1957.
Americans eat about 125 pounds of potatoes a year, about half from fresh potatoes and half in processed foods.
One-tenth of the Earth's surface is always under the cover of ice. And almost 90 per cent of that ice is to be found in the continent of Antarctica.
Oils from the orange roughy, Hoplostethus atlanticus, a deep-sea fish from New Zealand, are used in making shampoo.
Scientists estimate that more than three-quarters of Earth's surface is of volcanic origin, that is, rocks either erupted by volcanoes or molten rock.
Wolves in the Arctic have to travel much longer distances than wolves in the forest to find food and will sometimes go for several days without eating.
The giraffe is one of the quietest animals: it has no vocal chords to make any noise.
Crocodiles swallow stones to help them dive deeper.
Quinine, one of the most important drugs known to man, is obtained from the dried bark of an evergreen tree native to South America.
Eighty-five percent of all the plants and animals live in the sea.
Bracts are modified leaves, which are located at the base of a flower. Bracts are usually smaller than the leaves on the stem. Poinsettia and bougainvillea plants have bracts.
An average ear of corn has 800 kernels, arranged in 16 rows.
Soy crayons have been created to replace toxic petroleum-waxCrayon.GIF (2629 bytes) crayons, soy crayons are safer to use, brighter in color, and less expensive to produce.
At any given time, on average there are about 1800 thunderstorms occurring on earth with 100 lightning strikes per second.
The Golden 'Poison Dart' frog in South America is most poisonous vertebrate in the world.
Rainforests are threatened by unsustainable agricultural, ranching, mining and logging practices.
In 1932 James Markham obtained the 1st patent issued for a tree. The patent was for a peach tree.
Earth is referred to as the BLUE PLANET. Because from space, the oceans combined with our atmosphere make our planet look blue.
Angel Falls in Venezuela is the worlds highest waterfall, The water of Falls drops 3,212 feet (979 meters).
The world's deadliest recorded earthquake occurred in 1557 in central China, more than 830,000 people were killed.
The Skylab astronauts grew 1.5 - 2.25 inches (3.8 - 5.7 centimeters) due to spinal lengthening and straightening as a result of zero gravity.
Some tissue-making machines can produce as many as 6000 feet of toilet tissuetree01.gif (1395 bytes) every minute out of trees.
The Pacific Ocean has an average depth of 2.4 miles (3.9 kilometers).
Total fertility rate of the world is 2.59 children born/woman. Niger is 7.46 (highest), India is 2.73, US is 2.09 & Hong Kong is 0.95 only (Lowest).
Tree roots stabilize the soil and prevent erosion.
On an average, most people blink about 15,000 times in a 16-hour day (awake.)
Rainforests can be found all over the world from as far north as Alaska and Canada to Latin America, Asia and Africa.
The 236 ft or 72 m high Ada Tree of Australia has a 50 ft or 15.4 m girth and a root system that takes up more than an acre.
The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
Spiders have transparent blood.
The smallest bone in the human body is the stapes or stirrup bone located in the middle ear. It is approximately .11 inches (.28 cm) long.
The remains of diatoms, algae with hard shells, are used in making pet litter, cosmetics, pool filters and tooth polish.
White potatoes were first cultivated by local Indians in the Andes Mountains of South America.
Armadillos spend about 80% of their lives asleep.
Hydrothermal vents, fractures in the sea floor that spew sulphur compounds, support the only complex ecosystem known to run on chemicals, rather than energy from the sun.
The primary root is the first thing to sprout from a seed, and it grows downward.
Snowflakes falling at 2-4 mph can take about 1 hr to reach the ground.
Horseshoe crabs have existed in essentially the same form for the past 135 million years. Their blood provides a valuable test for the toxins that cause septic shock, which previously led to half of all hospital-acquired infections and one-fifth of all hospital deaths.
The black widow spider can devour as many as twenty 'mates' in a single day.
The average width of a tornado's funnel averages about 100 to 200 yards but may be as wide as a mile.
Lake Baikal is about 20 million years old and contains 20 percent of Earth's fresh liquid water.
The human body has less muscles in it than a caterpillar.
An elephant can use its tusks to dig for ground water. An adult elephant needs to drink around 210 litres of water a day.
Earth's ocean is made up of more than 20 seas and four oceans: Atlantic, Indian, Arctic, and Pacific, the oldest and the largest.
One ragweed plant can release as many as one billion grains of pollen.
Frogs eat their skin after they shed it.
The fragrance of flowers is due to the essences of oil which they produce.
Your blood vessels, if laid end to end, would encircle the globe twice over.
The heart of giraffe is two feet long, and can weigh as much as twenty four pounds.
Chile (Africa) is the driest place on Earth, gets just 0.03 inches (0.76 millimeters) of rain per year.
The total surface area of the Earth is 197 million square miles.
The world's smallest rodent is Pygmy Jerboa - measuring only a couple of inches in length - and can run as fast as a horse.
Female mosquitos will obtain blood from humans and animals, but only to nourish their eggs. Their food actually consists of nectar and other plant juices.
An African bugleweed synthesises in its tissues a substance similar to the hormone that controls the development of caterpillars. If a caterpillar is persuaded, experimentally, to ingest that substance, then when it turns into a butterfly it will develop two heads and die.
There is no land at all at the North Pole, only ice on top of sea. The Arctic Ocean has about 12 million sq km of floating ice and has the coldest winter temperature of -34 degrees centigrade.
The pineapple was symbol of welcome in the 1700-1800's. That is why in New England you will see so many pineapples on door knockers. An arch in Providence RI leading into the Federal Hill neighborhood has a pineapple on it for that very reason. Pineapples were brought home by seafarers as gifts.
Lobsters have blue blood.
Some of the oldest mountains in the world are the Highlands in Scotland . They are estimated to be about 400 million years old.
Fleas can accelerate 50 times faster than the space shuttle.
Bees have been known to cure rheumatism.
You can figure out which way is south if you are near a tree stump. The growth rings are wider on the south side.
Chimpanzees are the only animals that can recognize themselves in a mirror.
The fungus Cordyceps is able to 'mind-control' other insects like ants to climb plants and attach there to become its food.
There are more insects in one square mile of rural land than there are humans on the entire earth.
Seventy percent of the plants identified by the U.S. National Cancer Institute as useful in the treatment of cancer are found only in rainforests.
Wheat is the world's most widely cultivated plant; grown on every continent except Antarctica.
The average human produces a quart of saliva a day -- about 10,000 gallons in a lifetime
Life began in the seas 3.1 billion to 3.4 billion years ago. Land dwellers appeared 400 million years ago; a relatively recent point in the geologic time line.
Earth's largest continuous mountain chain is the Mid-Ocean Ridge, stretching for 40,000 miles, rising above the surface of the water in a few places, such as Iceland. It is four times longer than the Andes, Rocky Mountains, and Himalayas combined.
A cubic mile of ordinary fog contains less than a gallon of water.
A single bacteria cell, given all the food it needs, could divide into a ball of cells the size of the Earth in 24 hours.
The human body contains about six-thousand miles of blood vessels.
The world's smallest frog - The Little Grass Frog - is no bigger than a house fly.
The first American advertisement for tobacco was published in 1789. It showed a picture of an Indian smoking a long clay pipe.
The flower with the world's largest bloom is the Rafflesia arnoldii. This rare flower is found in the rainforests of Indonesia. It can grow to be 3 feet across and weigh up to 15 pounds.
Global Positioning System (GPS) is the only system today that can show your exact position on the Earth anytime, in any weather, no matter where you are!
When the queen of a clownfish school dies, a male clownfish changes its gender to become female and takes her place.
Less than one percent of the tropical rainforest species have been analyzed for their medicinal value.
The industrial complex of Cubatao in Brazil is known as the Valley of Death because its pollution has destroyed the trees and rivers nearby.
A mature birch tree can produce up to 1 million seeds per year.
If your mouth was completely dry, you would not be able to distinguish the taste of anything.
Babies are born far sighted - their eyes start to focus properly between 3 to 6 months of age.
When you get goosebumps and your hair stands, the hair helps to trap air, making you feel warmer by keeping in your body heat.
The average airspeed of the common housefly is 4 1/2 mph. A housefly beats its wings about 20,000 times per minute.
The inside of a tree is made of phloem, cambium, and xylem.
Sepals are usually green. They are the first part that forms on a bud and, when the bud opens, the sepals remain beneath the petals of the flower. Sometimes sepals hold tightly against the bottom of the petals, and sometimes they curl away from the petals.
There is an average of 50,000 spiders per acre in green areas.
Petals are usually colorful, and they attract insects and birds that help with pollination.
The ichneumon fly has a sense of smell so keen that it can locate a caterpillar deep inside a tree trunk.
Plants often grow from seeds.
The ears of a cricket are located on the front legs, just below the knee.
Most earthquakes are triggered less than 50 miles (80 kilometers) from the surface of the Earth.
One of the tallest soft wood trees is the General Sherman, a giant redwood sequoia of California. General Sherman is about 275 ft or 84 m high with a girth of 25 ft or 8 m.
Bananas are actually giant herbs - related to the orchid family.
The human brain is 80% water.
The only insect that can turn its head 360 degrees is the praying mantis.
Elephants can hear through their feet.
One bushel of corn will sweeten more than 400 cans of pop.
The largest meteorite crater in the world is in Winslow, Arizona. It is 4,150 feet across and 150 feet deep.
The monarch butterfly's sense of taste is about 12,000 times more sensitive than a human's.
The volume of the Earth's moon is the same as the volume of the Pacific Ocean.
Coniferous forest belt supplies most of the world's requirement of newsprint.
Earth travels through space at 66,700 miles per hour.
About 70% of the world's fresh water is stored as glacial ice.
Undersea earthquakes and other disturbances cause tsunamis, or great waves. The largest recorded tsunami measured 210 feet above sea level when it reached Siberia's Kamchatka Peninsula in 1737.
The liver is the only organ able to regenerate itself completely.
El Azizia in Libya recorded a temperature of 136 degrees Fahrenheit (57.8 Celsius) on Sept. 13, 1922 - the hottest ever measured.
Trees keep our air supply fresh by absorbing carbon dioxide and producing oxygen.
Trees provide protection from downward fall of rain, sleet, and hail as well as reduce storm run-off and the possibility of flooding,
The largest single flower is the Rafflesia or 'corpse flower'. They are generally 3 feet in diameter with the record being 42 inches.
The stem contains the plant's two-way transportation system made up of two systems of tubes. One tube system carries food and minerals up into the plant. Then when the leaves make food, the other tube system carries the food into the stem and back into the roots for storage.
Every year in the United States each person uses the equivalent of one tree, 100 feet tall and 16 inches in diameter, to fulfill their wood and paper needs.
Arrowroot, an antidote for poisoned arrows, is used as a thickener in cooking.
Nearly 70 percent of the Earth's fresh-water supply is locked up in the icecaps of Antarctica and Greenland. The remaining fresh-water supply exists in the atmosphere, streams, lakes, or groundwater and accounts for a mere 1 percent of the Earth's total.
There are two types of elephant, the Asian elephant and the African elephant (although sometimes the African Elephant is split into two species, the African Forest Elephant and the African Bush Elephant).
The nerves in our body are most concentrated in our fingertips.
Farmers grow corn on every continent except Antarctica.
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that of the seventeen major fisheries areas in the world, four are depleted and the other thirteen are either fished to capacity or overfished.
At the current rate of tropical forest loss, 5-10 percent of tropical rainforest species will be lost per decade.
About one-third surface of the Earth's land is desert.
The sunrays reached at the earth in 8 minutes & 3 seconds.
United Arab Emirates is only the country where death rate 2.11/1000 (deaths/1,000 population) is lowest (2009 est.) in the world.
Almost a third of the world\u2019s total land area is covered by forests.
The housefly hums in the middle octave, key of F
A dragonfly flaps its wings 20 to 40 times a second, bees and houseflies 200 times, some mosquitoes 600 times, and a tiny gnat 1,000 times.
An ostrich egg is also the largest existing single cell.
The tongue of a blue whale is bigger than a taxi cab, and can weigh as much as an elephant.
Trees lower air temperature by evaporating water in their leaves.
There are between 100,000,000,000 and 1,000,000,000,000 stars in a normal galaxy.
When hunting alone, the wolf catches small animals such as squirrels, hares, chipmunks, raccoons or rabbits. However, a pack of wolves can hunt very large animals like moose, caribou and yaks.
In 1934, a gust of wind reached 371 km/h on Mount Washington in New Hampshire, USA.
The Pacific Ocean is the largest ocean, covers 64 million square miles (165 million square kilometers). It is more than two times the size of the Atlantic.
The amount of oxygen produced by an acre of trees per year equals the amount consumed by 18 people annually. One tree produces nearly 260 pounds of oxygen each year.
The Arabian Sea and the Persian Gulf are connected by the Hormuz Strait.
The Sarawak Chamber in Malaysia is the largest cave in the world is 2300 feet (701 meters) long, 1300 feet (400 meters) wide, and more than 230 feet (70 meters) high.
There are about 600 kernels on each ear of corn.
Certain fireflies emit a light so penetrating that it can pass through flesh and wood.
Cranberries are one of just 3 major fruits native to North America. Blueberries and Concord grapes are the other two.
There are more species of fish in Amazon river than in the entire Atlantic Ocean (Over 2,000).
Some species of earthworm can have as many as 10 hearts.
A hedgehog's heart beats 300 times a minute on average.
An inch of rain water is equivalent to 15 inches of dry, powdery snow.
Baikal Lake in Russian Fed. is the deepest lake (5315 ft) in the world.
A single baked potato contains less than 250 calories and is over 99% fat free.
Scientists have identified more than 300 viruses capable of bringing fatal diseases to insects. The organisms are believed to be entirely different than those that cause disease in humans, and are thus harmless to man.
The gravity on Mars is 38% of that found on Earth. So a 100 pounds person on Earth would weigh 38 pounds on Mars.
A typical Mayfly only lives one day.
The warmest sea in the world is the Red Sea, where temperatures range from 68 degrees to 87.8 degrees F depending upon which part you measure.
There is a butterfly in Africa with enough poison in it's body to kill six cats.
The surface area of a human lung is equal to that of a tennis court.
The major ions in seawater are Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+, K+, Sr2+, Cl-, SO42- (sulfate), HCO3- (bicarbonate), Br-, B(OH)3 (boric acid), and F-. Together, they account for almost all of the salt in seawater.
Ants cannot chew their food, they move their jaws sideways, like scissors, to extract the juices from the food.
A goldfish (like most marine fish) can survive in a tank full of human blood.
20/20 vision means the eye can see normally at 20 feet. 20/15 is better; the eye can see at 20 feet what another eye sees at 15 feet.
You shed and regrow your skin every 28 days, that's about 1000 times in a lifetime.
The Antarctic Ice Sheet is almost twice the size of the United States.
The temperature of Earth near the center, its thought to be at least 7,000 degrees Fahrenheit (3,870 Celsius).
Lake Mead is the largest man-made lake and reservoir in the United States. Formed by water impounded by Hoover Dam, it extends 110 mi (180 km) behind the dam, holding approximately 28.5 million acre feet (35 km�) of water.
The largest temperate rainforests are found on North America's Pacific Coast and stretch from Northern California up into Canada.
A large woodpecker can peck as fast as 20 times a second and up to 12,000 times a day.
Starfish don't have brains.
The human head is a quarter of our total length at birth, but only an eighth of our total length by the time we reach adulthood.
Human thigh bones are stronger than concrete.
Tropical ants, when a flood sweeps down on them, roll themselves into a huge living ball which drifts upon the water, with the young safe and dry at the core.
At least 1,000 million grams, or roughly 1,000 tons of material (dust) enters the atmosphere every year and makes its way to Earths surface.
One acre of trees removes up to 2.6 tons of carbon dioxide each year.
Earth's atmosphere is actually about 80 percent nitrogen. Most of the rest is oxygen, with tiny amounts of other stuff thrown in.
Commercial marine fisheries in the United States discard up to 20 billion pounds of non-target fish each year-- twice the catch of desired commercial and recreational fishing combined. Worldwide this adds up to a staggering 60 billion pounds each year!!
Trees cut down noise pollution by acting as sound barriers.
A lobster has a sense of smell about 1000 times keener than a human.
Fleas can jump 130 times higher than their own height. In human terms, that's a 6ft tall person jumping 780 ft in the air.
About 20 to 30 volcanoes erupt each year, mostly under the sea.
A swarm of Rocky Mountain locusts flew over Nebraska on July 20-30, 1874 covering an area estimated at 198,600 square miles. The swarm must have contained at least 12.5 trillion insects, weighing about 27.5 million tons.
The popular name for the giant sequoia tree is Redwood.
Arrowroot, an antidote for poisoned arrows, is used as a thickener in cooking (so if you ever get shot with a poison arrow, do not go to a doctor, look in your kitchen cabinet.
Elephants have no natural predators. However, lions will sometimes prey on young or weak elephants in the wild. The main risk to elephants is from humans through poaching and changes to their habitat.
About 1.5 million tons of ground cocoa beans from the tropical tree are used each year to make chocolate and cocoa products. That\u2019s greater than the weight of more than 300,000 elephants!
During a hurricane, 90% of the people who die end up dying from drowning.
Banana oil never saw a banana; it's made from petroleum.
Out of 20000 species of bees, only 4 make honey.
Before 1500 A.D., there were approximately 6 million indigenous people living in the Brazilian Amazon. But as the forests disappeared, so too did the people. In the early 1900s, there were less than 250,000 indigenous people living in the Amazon.
Archeologists have found evidence that humans have enjoyed eating apples since 6500 B.C. Each of us eats more than 19 pounds of apples annually.
In Siberia, in 1994, a container full of marijuana was discovered in the 2,000-year-old grave of a Scythian princess and priestess, among the many other articles buried with her.
An arabica coffee tree can produce up to 12 pounds of coffee a year, depending on soil and climate.
The highest temperature ever recorded in the United States was 134 degrees F at Greenland Ranch in Death Valley, California.
Stems, leaves, primary roots, secondary roots, root hairs, and buds are plant parts. Click here to see the parts of a plant!
The plant life in the oceans make up about 85 percent of all the greenery on the Earth.
Only female mosquitoes bite people.
Every four days the worlds population increases by one million people.
Some crickets burrow megaphone-like tunnels that help transport the sound of their chirps as far as 2,000 feet away.
The oceans contain 99 percent of the living space on the planet.
Giraffes could pass out with blood filling their brain when they lower their neck, so they have a sponge-like organ in the head which slowly gathers and releases blood.
Rain has never been recorded in some parts of the Atacama Desert in Chile.
There are more living organisms on the skin of a single human being than there are human beings on the surface of the earth.
Bees have 5 eyes. There are 3 small eyes on the top of a bee's head and 2 larger ones in front.
A housefly can transport germs as far as 15 miles away from the original source of contamination.
The Stegosaurus dinosaur measured up to 30 feet (9.1 meters) long but had a brain the size of a walnut.
Both female and male African elephants have tusks but only the male Asian elephants have tusks. They use their tusks for digging and finding food.
Shrimp's heart is in its head.
Continents are typically defined as landmasses made of low-density rock that essentially floats on the molten material below. Greenland fits this description.
Water-meal or Wolffia globosa is the smallest flower in the world, its contains some 38 species of the smallest and simplest flowering plants.
The Earth is the densest major body in the solar system.
A mosquito has 47 teeth.
In 1958, the United States Coast Guard icebreaker East Wind measured the world's tallest known iceberg off western Greenland. At 550 feet it was only 5 feet 6 inches shorter than the Washington Monument in Washington, D.C.
Porcupines float in water.
Bluefin tuna, Thunnus thynnus, are among the largest and fastest marine fish. An adult may weigh 1,500 pounds and swim up to 55 miles per hour.
Dr. Joel Poinsett, the 1st US ambassador to Mexico, brought the poinsettia to US in 1828. The plant, called 'flower of the blessed night' in Mexico was renamed in Poinsett's honor.
Emus and kangaroos cannot walk backwards.
The human body has enough fat to produce 7 bars of soap.
Maggots were once used to treat a bone infection called osteomyelitis.
By volume, the ocean makes up 99 percent of the planet's living space- the largest space in our universe known to be inhabited by living organisms.
Armadillos can walk underwater.
An iguana can stay under water for twenty-eight minutes.
Honeybees have hair on their eyes.
Ants do not sleep.
Nearly 90 percent of the 1.2 billion people living in extreme poverty worldwide depend on forests for their livelihoods.
Total fertility rate of the world is 2.59 children born/woman.
Secondary roots grow from the primary root.
Male bees will try to attract sex partners with orchid fragrance.
Blueberries are the second most popular berry in the United States.
The blue whale can produce the loudest sound produced by an animal - up to 188 decibels - and detected as far away as 853 kms (530mi).
About 400 billion gallons water is used worldwide each day.
Green turtles can migrate more than 1,400 miles to lay their eggs.
Peanuts are beans.
Trees and other plants make their food through a process called photosynthesis.
The water that falls on a single acre of land during one inch of rainfall, it would weigh 113 tons that is 226,000 pounds.
The world's windiest place is Commonwealth Bay, Antartica with winds regularly exceeding 150 miles per hour.
Elephants can swim - they use their trunk to breathe like a snorkel in deep water.
A nest in which insects or spiders deposit their eggs is called a 'nidus'.
Tarantulas do not use muscles to move their legs. They control the amount of blood pumped into them to extend and retract their legs.
F: The lightest organ in the human body is the lung.
Little Miss Muffet was arachnaphobic.
Worms can have up to ten hearts.
Covering less than 2 percent of the Earth's total surface area, the world's rainforests are home to 50 percent of the Earth's plants and animals.
The largest recorded snowflake was 15in wide and 8in thick. It fell in Montana in 1887.
The cow has four stomachs, as most ruminant mammals do.
Whales were once land mammals that moved to the sea and adapted to marine life.
The katydid has supersonic hearing. It can hear sounds up to 4-5,000 vibrations per second.
California produces almost all of the broccoli sold in the United States.
The silkworm moth has lost the ability of flight due to domestication.
A pineapple is a berry.
Sheeps, goats and the octopus have almost rectangular-oval pupils in their eyes.
Almonds are the oldest, most widely cultivated and extensively used nuts in the world.
The ant can lift things 10 times its own weight.
The animal with the largest brain in relation to its body is the ant.
Rainforests are critical in maintaining the Earth's limited supply of drinking and fresh water.
Luxembourg is the richest country of the world, the gross national product (GNP) of Luxembourg is $45,360.
Earth's oceans are an average of 2 Miles deep
The biggest egg in the world is the ostrich egg. It could take as many as 30 chicken eggs to equal its volume, and up to 2 hours to hard boil.
In one year, an acre of trees can absorb as much carbon as is produced by a car driven up to 8700 miles.
The California redwood - coast redwood and giant sequoia - are the tallest and largest living organism in the world.
From a distance, Earth would be the brightest of the 9 planets. This is because sunlight is reflected by the planet's water.
Pineapple is actually a giant berry.
In relation to its size, the ordinary house spider is eight times faster than an Olympic sprinter.
Elephants are herbivores and can spend up to 16 hours days collecting leaves, twigs, bamboo and roots.
Mosquitoes prefer children to adults, and blondes to brunettes.
Trees are the longest living organisms on earth.
As an adult, you have more than 20 square feet of skin on your body--about the same square footage as a blanket for a queen-sized bed.
From the age of thirty, humans gradually begin to shrink in size.
A fly can react to something it sees and change direction in 30 milliseconds.
The largest eggs in the world are laid by a shark.
You're more likely to get stung by a bee on a windy day that in any other weather.
The trunk of a tree is the tree's stem.
The moon is one million times drier than the Gobi Desert.
Mount Everest 8850 meter (29035 ft) Nepal/China is the tallest mountain.
Stamens have two parts - a stalk called the filament and the anther, which is at the tip.
The highest tides in the world are at the Bay of Fundy, which separates New Brunswick from Nova Scotia. At some times of the year the difference between high and low tide is 53 feet 6 inches, the equivalent of a five-story building.
A cucumber is 96% water.
The acceleration rate of a flea's jump is 20 times that of a space shuttle during launch.
Every second, a slice of rainforest the size of a football field is mowed down. That's 86,400 football fields of rainforest per day, or over 31 million football fields of rainforest each year.
Scientists have actually performed brain surgery on cockroaches.
For every 1000 red blood cells in our body, there is only about one white cell.
In the United States, more tomatoes are consumed than any other single fruit or vegetable!
Lloro, Colombia is the wettest place on Earth, averages 523.6 inches of rainfall a year, or more than 40 feet (13 meters). That's about 10 times more than fairly wet major cities in Europe or the United States.
Hummingbirds are the only animals able to fly backwards.
Roots are covered with root hairs that absorb water and minerals.
Dolphins and whales are mammals that don't drink water.
Certain kinds of insects can live as long as a year after having their head severed. What's more, the insects can still react to stimuli, such as light and temperature.
Honeybees navigate using the sun as a compass, even when it is hidden behind clouds - they find it via the polarization of ultraviolet light from areas of blue sky.
Each Wonder (in 7 wonders) has its own intrigue. Historian agree that the Pyramids stood the test of time, the Lighthouse is the only Wonder that has a practical secular use, and the Temple of Artemis was the most beautiful of all Wonders.
There are 4,300 known species of ladybugs in the world.
The red planet 'Mars' takes 687 Earth-days to go around the Sun, compared to 365 days for Earth.
Leaves capture energy from light and change it into energy that plants can use.
The Horseshoe crab has blue blood.
Giant kelp, the fastest growing plant in the ocean, can grow up to 2 feet per day. Under optimal conditions, giant kelp can grow to a length of more than 100 feet in little more than a year and can grow to a maximum of 200 feet.
Lost or discarded fishing nets keep on fishing. Called 'ghost nets,' this gear entangles fish, marine mammals, and sea birds, preventing them from feeding or causing them to drown. As many as 20,000 northern fur seals may die each year from becoming entangled in netting.
A mature, well-established termite colony with as many as 60,000 members will eat only about one-fifth of an ounce of wood a day.
Nutmeg is extremely poisonous if injected intravenously.
Until 1883, hemp was the world's largest agricultural crop, from which the majority of fabric, soap, paper, medicines,  were produced.
The fastest speed a falling raindrop can hit you is 18mph.
Only 3% water of the earth is fresh, rest 97% salted. Of that 3%, over 2% is frozen in ice sheets and glaciers. Means less than 1% fresh water is found in lakes, rivers and underground.
The human eye blinks an average of 4,200,000 times each year.
The Atlantic Giant Squid's eye can be as large as 15.75 inches (40 centimeters) wide.
It is estimated that medical waste that washed up onto Long Island and New Jersey beaches in the summer of 1988 cost as much as $3 billion in lost revenue from tourism and recreation.
After mating, the female black widow spider turns on her partner and devours him. The female may dispatch as many as twenty-five suitors a day in this manner.
Trees improve water quality by slowing and filtering rain water as well as protecting aquifers and watersheds.
House flies have a lifespan of two weeks.
Wolves have two layers of fur, an undercoat and a top coat, which allow them to survive in temperatures as low at minus 40 degrees Celsius! In warmer weather they flatten their fur to keep cool.
15 million blood cells are produced and destroyed in the human body every second.
The ocean is a source of mineral deposits, including oil and gas.
Mars days are 24 hours and 37 minutes long, compared to 23 hours, 56 minutes on Earth.
The world's tallest tree is a coast redwood in California, measuring more than 360 ft or 110 m.
The xylem of a tree carries water from the roots to the leaves.
The ocean accounts for 0.022 percent of the total weight of earth, weighing an estimated 1,450,000,000,000,000,000 short tons (1 short ton = 2,000lbs).
F: Wolf pups are born deaf and blind while weighing around 0.5 kg (1 lb). It takes about 8 months before they are old enough to actively join in wolf pack hunts.
Insects make up two thirds of known species.
The electric eel of South America (Electrophorus electricus) can generate over 600 volts, and can paralyze even a horse.
The coldest seas are found near the poles such as the Greenland, Barents, Beaufort, Kara, Laptev & East Siberian Seas found near the north pole & Weddell & Ross Seas found in the south poles. The Baltic Sea is also considered one of the coldest seas.
About 97 percent of all water on earth is in our oceans, 2 percent is frozen in our ice caps and glaciers, less than 0.3 percent is carried in the atmosphere in the form of clouds, rain, and snow. All of our inland seas, lakes and channels combined add up to only 0.02 percent of earth's water.
Hydroponics is the technique by which plants are grown in water without soil.
The bright orange color of carrots tell you they are an excellent source of Vitamin A which is important for good eyesight, especially at night. Vitamin A helps your body fight infection, and keeps your skin and hair healthy.
The United States uses an estimated 10 million tons of salt each year to melt ice on the roads.
The EARTH has over 1,200,000 species of animals, 300,000 species of plants & 100,000 other species.
Healthy nails grow about 2 cm each year. Fingernails grow four times as fast as toenails.
Everyone's tongue print is different.
In the Netherlands, in 1634, a collector paid 1,000 pounds of cheese, four oxen, eight pigs, 12 sheep, a bed, and a suit of clothes for a single bulb of the Viceroy tulip.
Ladybugs bleed to protect themselves. When alarmed, they release drops of a reddish or yellowish bitter tasting liquid from their mouths and from the pores at their joints. This repels prospective attackers.
Rats multiply so quickly that in 18 months, two rats could have over 1 million descendents.
Rats can swim for half a mile (0.8 km) without rest, and can tread water for three straight days.
Ninety percent of all volcanic activity occurs in the oceans. In 1993, scientists located the largest known concentration of active volcanoes on the sea floor in the South Pacific. This area, the size of New York State, hosts 1,133 volcanic cones and seamounts. Two or three could erupt any moment.
Willow bark, which provides the salicylic acid from which aspirin was originally synthesized, has been used as a pain remedy ever since the Greeks discovered its therapeutic power nearly 2,500 years ago.
The largest insect in the world, the meganeuron, a prehistoric dragonfly, measured 29 inches from wingtip to wingtip.
The Antarctic ice sheet is 3-4 km thick, covers 13 million sq km and has temperatures as low as -70 degrees centigrade.
The life of an eyelash is about 5 months.
Spend time watching a spider and you will see that they painstakingly avoid the sticky silk and walk on the spokes. Should the spider be startled and walk in the sticky silk it will affix to the spider the same as it would you or any thing else.
The right lung takes in more air than the left.
Shanghai, China is the largest city by population (13.3 million) in the world.
With more than 80,000 arms, the Basket Starfish has the greatest number of arms.
The world's largest amphibian is the giant salamander. It can grow up to 5 ft. in length.
To avoid predators, a mother Slow Loris licks its offspring with poison before sending them off to search for food.
The Mauna Loa volcano in Hawaii is the largest volcanoon on Earth. It rises more than 50,000 feet (9.5 miles or 15.2 kilometers) above its base, which sits under the surface of the sea.
If extracted, it is estimated that all the gold suspended in the world's seawater would give each person on Earth 9 pounds.
Carrots, potatoes, and radishes are examples of roots that we eat.
A fish never closes its eyes.
Originally, 6 million square miles of tropical rainforest existed worldwide. But as a result of deforestation, only 2.6 million square miles remain.
March 14 is 'Save a spider day.'
The Methuselah tree in California, USA, is the oldest living organism (4,800 years old) known today.
here are many different shapes and colors of leaves. Click this link to see leaves of different shapes and colors!
The coldest temperature ever recorded was a negative 126.9 degrees fahrenheit in Vostok Station, Antarctica.
No species of wild plant produces a flower or blossom that is absolutely black, and so far, none has been developed artificially.
The oldest living thing in existence is not a giant redwood, but a bristlecone pine in the White Mountains of California, dated to be aged 4,600 years old.
Tremendous erosion at the base of Niagara Falls (USA) undermines the shale cliffs and as a result the falls have receded approximately 7 miles over the last 10,000 years.
Lightning sets about 10,000 forest fires every year in the United States.
The berry butterflies (hypsa monycha) of Singapore, in their caterpillar stage, group around the top of a stem to foil predatory birds by imitating the appearance of a poisonous berry.
A slow cascade of water beneath the Denmark Strait sinks 2.2 miles; more than 3.5 times farther than Venezuela's Angel Falls, the tallest waterfall on land.
In 1783 an Icelandic eruption threw up enough dust to temporarily block out the sun over Europe.
The oarfish, Regalecus glesne, is the longest bony fish in the world. With its snakelike body, sporting a magnificent red fin along its 50-foot length horselike face and blue gills, it accounts for many sea-serpent sightings
Sunflower seeds really aren't seeds at all. They are actually hard, dry fruits called achenes. Inside an achene is one seed. Achenes do not break open to release the seed inside.
Our eyes can distinguish as many as 10 million distinct colour variations.
The human heart has enough pressure to squirt blood up to 30 feet away.
The Giant Burrowing Frog doesn't croak. It hoots like an owl.
The most dangerous animal in the world is the common housefly. Because of their habits of visiting animal waste, they transmit more diseases than any other animal.
Tomatoes are very high in the carotenoid Lycopene; eating foods with carotenoids can lower your risk of cancer.
The Arctic stays black and fiercely cold for months on end. In the High Arctic, the sun sets in October and does not rise again until late February.
While we're awake, our brain generates enough power to illuminate a light bulb of 25 watts.
The typical lifetime of a small cumulus cloud is between 10 to 15 minutes.
Lake Bosumtwi in Ghana formed in a hollow made by a meteorite.
Asia Continent is covered 30% of the total earth land area, but represent 60% of the world's population.
Penguins 'fly' underwater at up to 55 miles per hour
Rainforests provide many important products for people: timber, coffee, cocoa and many medicinal products, including those used in the treatment of cancer.
Spiders recycle their webbing, so a spider that gets stuck in its own web may eat its way out.
The Angel Falls in Venezuela is the world's highest waterfall (979 meters / 3212 ft.), three times the size of the Eiffel Tower.
Women blink nearly twice as much as men.
An acre of trees can remove about 13 tons of dust and gases every year from the surrounding environment.
Asparagus is a member of the lily family, which also includes onions, leeks, and garlic. Source of this fact and the next three.
Mars has two satellites, Phobos and Deimos. The Earth has only one natural satellite, but it's the Moon.
Over 90 percent of trade among countries is carried by ships.
Elephants are the largest land-living mammal in the world.
Fleas can jump more than 200 times their body length.
Each tassel on a corn plant releases as many as 5 million grains of pollen.
Some species of Bamboo can grow at the rate of 1 metres in 24 hours.
Every year in the US, 625 people are struck by lightning.
Northern Mariana Islands is only the country where death rate (2.29/1000) is lowest in the world.
The silkworm's silk comes out of its mouth as a thread of gooey liquid, so that nice silk blouse you spent a fortune on is really just worm spit.
The zebra mussel is the most famous unwanted ship stowaway, but the animals and plants being transported to new areas through ship ballast water is a problem around the world. Poisonous algae, cholera, and countless plants and animals have invaded harbor waters and disrupted ecological balance.
A typical four square mile patch of rainforest contains as many as 1,500 flowering plants, 750 species of trees, 400 species of birds and 150 species of butterflies.
Eighty-five percent of all life on Earth is Plankton.
A horn worm can eat an entire tomato plant by itself in one day!
Shark's teeth are literally as hard as steel.
When a coffee seed is planted, it takes five years to yield consumable fruit.
Leaves have veins that help to carry water and minerals to different parts of each leaf. Sometimes many veins are networked within a single leaf. Click this link to see some leaf veins close up!
With only 4.3 percent of the world population, Americans use about one-third of the world's processed mineral resources and about one-fourth of the world's non-renewable energy sources, like oil and coal.
Bananas are the most popular fruit in America. The average person eats 33 pounds of bananas a year!
The bright orange color of carrots tell you they\u2019re an excellent source of Vitamincarrot.jpg (11952 bytes) A which is important for good eyesight, especially at night. Vitamin A helps your body fight infection, and keeps your skin and hair healthy.
Life began in the seas 3.1 billion to 3.4 billion years ago. Land dwellers appeared 400 million years ago, a relatively recent point in the geologic time line.
A starfish can turn its stomach inside out.
Roots help to anchor plants and give them support.
The cottonwood tree seed is the seed that stays in flight the longest. The tiny seed is surrounded by ultra-light, white fluff hairs that can carry it on the air for several days.
Female elephants spend their entire lives living in large groups called herds. Male elephant leave their herds at about 13 years old and live fairly solitary lives from this point.
One-fifth of the world?s fresh water is found in the Amazon Basin.
If a person or an animal is born colorblind, they instantly have excellent night vision.
Ants stretch when they wake up. They also appear to yawn in a very human manner before taking up the tasks of the day.
Sunlight can penetrate clean ocean water to a depth of 240 feet.
The Coast Guard estimates that for United States waters, sewage treatment plants discharge twice as much oil each year as tanker spills.
Tibet is the highest country in the world. Its average height above sea level is 4500 meters.
The DNA in a single human cell is 37 metres long when unravelled.
Substances from marine plants and animals are used in scores of products, including medicine, ice cream, toothpaste, fertilizers, gasoline, cosmetics, and livestock feed.
Orchids have the smallest seeds. It takes more than 1.25 million seeds to weigh 1 gram.
Many nations' battles have been fought on or under the water.
The coldest temperature ever measured on Earth was -129 Fahrenheit (-89 Celsius) at Vostok, Antarctica, on July 21, 1983.
Lightning bolts can travel 60 miles.
The adult heart pumps about 7,500 litres of blood every day.
From the 1500's to the 1700's, tobacco was prescribed by doctors to treat a variety of ailments including headaches, toothaches, arthritis and bad breath.
The average tree in metropolitan area survives only about 8 years!
Flowers come in many sizes and shapes. Click this link to see some flowers!
In January and February, the average temperature in the high Arctic is -29 F.
Bell peppers are usually sold green, but they can also be red, purple or yellow.
Avocados have the highest fibre and calories of any fruit.
Egypt's High Aswan Dam, built in the 1960s to provide electricity and irrigation water, diverts up to 95 percent of the Nile River's normal flow. It has since trapped more than one million tons of nutrient rich silt and caused a sharp decline in Mediterranean sardine and shrimp fisheries.
The longest species of centipede is the giant scolopender (Scolopendra gigantea), found in the rain forests of Central and South America. It has 23 segments (46 legs) and specimens have been measured up to 10.5 inches long and 1' in diameter.
Tree roots stabilize soil and prevent erosion.
The temperature of Earth increases about 36 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Celsius) for every kilometer (about 0.62 miles) you go down.
A plant's stem appears and grows upward shortly after the primary root appears. It continues to grow above ground level.
One study of a cruise ship anchor dropped in a coral reef for one day found an area about half the size of a football field completely destroyed, and half again as much covered by rubble that died later. It was estimated that coral recovery would take fifty years.
The natural diet of Lady Beetles consists of soft bodied insects such as aphids, spider mites, and young caterpillars. Adults can consume up to 100 aphids a day.
Oak trees do not have acorns until they are fifty years old or older.
Monaco is the Highest Density Country of the world, 16,205 people per square k.m. live in Monaco.
Crickets don't chirp by rubbing their legs together, they make the noise by rubbing their wings together.
Rainforests act as the world's thermostat by regulating temperatures and weather patterns.
An ant can survive for up to two weeks underwater.
The largest frog in the world is The Goliath Frog of Gabon in West Africa and can grow as big as 33cm long and up to 3kg heavy.
Cats have over one hundred vocal sounds, while dogs only have about ten.
Tea was so expensive when it was first brought to Europe in the early 17th century that it was kept in locked wooden boxes.
The blue whale, Balaenoptera musculus, is the largest known animal ever to have lived on sea or land. Individuals can reach more than 110 feet and weigh nearly 200 tons, more than the weight of 50 adult elephants.
A molecule of water will stay in Earth's atmosphere for an average duration of 10-12 days.
Although Mount Everest is often called the tallest mountain on Earth, Mauna Kea, an inactive volcano on the island of Hawaii, is actually taller. Only 13,796 feet of Mauna Kea stands above sea level, yet it is 33,465 feet tall if measured from the ocean floor to its summit
The world's oldest trees are 4,600 year old Bristlecone pines in the USA
Fruit is really the part of a flower in which seeds grow. Cherries, apples, and even milkweed pods are fruit.
On an average day, a queen bee lays about 1,500 eggs.
There are 328,000,000 cubic miles of seawater on earth, covering approximately 71 percent of earth's surface.
Rice paper isn't made from rice but from a small tree which grows in Taiwan.
The Brazilian 'railroad worm' has a head that glows with a red light, and has a green light on its side.
A huge underground river runs underneath the Nile, with six times more water than the river above.
Ginger has been clinically demonstrated to work twice as well as Dramamine for fighting motion sickness, with no side effects.
At the deepest point in the ocean the pressure is more than 8 tons per square inch, or the equivalent of one person trying to hold-up 50 jumbo jets against the force of gravity.
The world's tallest grass, which has sometimes grown 130 feet or more, is bamboo.
Of the more than 600 million school-age children in the developing world, 120 million primary school-age children are not in school, 53 percent are girls.
The social life in ants and termites has been accompanied by an extraordinary royal perk: a 100-fold increase among queen ants in average maximum lifespan, with some queens surviving for almost 30 years. This longevity can be attributed in part to the sheltered and pampered life of the queen.
The deepest hole ever made by humans is in Kola Peninsula in Russia, was completed in 1989, creating a hole 12,262 meters (7.6 miles) deep.
Between evaporation and falling as precipitation, a droplet of water may travel thousands of miles.
Buds are small swellings on a plant from which a shoot, leaf, or flower usually develops.
A worm is both male and female at the same time (a hermaphrodite.)
DNA unravels at 7000 RPM (revolutions per minute).
Hummingbirds can't walk.
Rainforests are found on every continent across the Earth, except Antarctica.
Australia, (7,617.930 sq km) is widely considered part of a continental landmass, not officially an island. But without doubt it is the largest island on the planet, and when combined with Oceania, the smallest continent on Earth.
The rose family of plants, in addition to flowers, gives us apples, pears, plums, cherries, almonds, peaches and apricots.
The World's largest hot desert is the Sahara in North Africa, at over 9,000,000 km, it is almost as large as the United States.
Elephants have been known to remain standing after they die.
The Peregrine Falcon around 200mph (320 km/h) is the fastest bird on the planet, the top speed recorded is 242.3mph (390 km/h).
A crocodile's tongue is attached to the roof of its mouth.
Our eyes are always the same size from birth, but our nose and ears never stop growing.
If the ocean's total salt content were dried, it would cover the continents to a depth of 500 feet.
Many fish can change sex during the course of their lives. Others, especially rare deep-sea fish, have both male and female sex organs.
The White Sea, in Russia, has the lowest temperature, only -2 degrees centigrade.
Two hundred million years of recorded geologic and biologic history of the Earth are found in the ocean's floor. By studying ocean sediments, scientists can learn about ancient climate, how it changed, and how better to predict our own climate.
Americans eat more bananas than any other fruit: a total of 11 billion a year.
The Giant cricket of Africa enjoys eating human hair.
When the pack kills an animal, the alpha pair always eats first. As food supply is often irregular for wolves, they will eat up to 1/5th of their own body weight at a time to make up for days of missed food.
The average person has over 1,460 dreams a year.
Knowing oceanography can enhance the conditions for trade, communications, and defense.
Pistils, stamens, stigmas, anthers, petals, and sepals are all parts of a flower. Click this link to see the parts of a flower!
An Octopus has three hearts.
Men have more blood in their circulatory system than women and more red blood cells.
The dragonfly has about 30,000 lenses covering the retina of its eye, and thus sees many, many images where we see only one.
A seed contains its own food supply, which helps the sprouting plant as it begins its new life.
Butterflies taste with their hind feet.
An average adult human has skin weighing about 3 kilograms in total.
There are two major types of rainforest: temperate rainforests and tropical rainforests.
Trees provide shade and shelter, reducing yearly heating and cooling costs by 2.1 billion dollars.
Blue whales are found throughout the world's oceans, the lifespan is estimated to be 80 years & population is between 1300 & 2000 only, its dangerously low.
The beautiful but deadly Australian sea wasp (Chironex fleckeri) is the most venomous jellyfish in the world. Its cardiotoxic venom has caused the deaths of 66 people off the coast of Queensland since 1880, with victims dying within 1-3 minutes if medical aid is not available.
Antarctica is the highest, driest, and coldest continent on Earth.
The distance from the surface of Earth to the center is about 3,963 miles (6,378 kilometers).
Moths have no stomach.
The total water supply of the world is 326 million cubic miles (1 cubic mile of water equals more than 1 trillion gallons).
While hibernating, frogs breathe through their skin.
The greatest tide change on earth occurs in the Bay of Fundy. The difference between low tide and high tide can be as great as 54 ft. 6 in. (16.6 meters).
More than 2,000 tropical forest plants have been identified by scientists as having anti-cancer properties.
Seventy percent of the dust in your home consists of shed human skin
A dragonfly's penis is shovel-shaped at the end, to scoop a rival male's sperm out of the female it's impregnating.
There are more insects in a single square mile of fertile soil than there are people on the entire earth.
More than 56,000 square miles of natural forest are lost each year.
Water and minerals flow upward through the roots into the stem of the plant and then into the leaves of the plant.
Rafflesia Arnoldii is the largest flower in world, and can grow as big as an umbrella.
Elephants have large, thin ears. Their ears are made up of a complex network of blood vessels which with regulating an elephants temperature. Blood is circulated through their ears to cool them down in hot climates.
An alligator may go through 2000 to 3000 teeth in a lifetime.
A teaspoonful of soil may contain 100 million bacteria.
The dormant volcano Mauna Kea (on the Big Island of Hawaii) could be considered the tallest mountain in the world. If you measure it from its base in the Hawaiian Trough (3,300 fathoms deep) to its summit of 13,796 feet, it reaches a height of 33,476 feet.
The chances of being struck by lightning is about one in three million.
Eggplant is a member of the thistle family.
English is the second most spoken language (Native speakers 512 million) & the first is Chinese Mandarin (more then 1 billion speakers).
Advertisements for coffee in London in 1657 claimed that the beverage was a cure for scurvy, gout and other ills.
There are more than 700 species of plants that grow in the United States that have been identified as dangerous if eaten. Among them are some that are commonly favored by gardeners: buttercups, daffodils, lily of the valley, sweet peas, oleander, azalea, bleeding heart, delphinium, rhododendron.
Trees located along streets act as a glare and reflection control.
62 degrees Fahrenheit is the minimum temperature required for a grasshopper to be able to hop.
A kind of jellyfish (Turritopsis nutricula) upon reaching adulthood can transform itself back to childhood by converting its cells. It may repeat this to live forever.
An iguana always lands on its feet.
Tarantulas are poisonous, but the concentration of the venom in those found in North America is low enough that they're usually not a threat to human life. In fact, some people keep them as pets.
95% of all animals are invertebrates (without a backbone or spinal column).
The fastest 'regular' wind that's widely agreed upon was 231 mph (372 kph), recorded at Mount Washington, New Hampshire, on April 12, 1934.
The male of one species of insect related to the praying mantis can only reproduce after the female has bitten off his head.
The death of one 70-year old tree would return over three tons of carbon to the atmosphere.
Only 11 percent of the earth's surface is used to grow food.
Grapes are one of the oldest cultivated fruits. They have been around for more than 8,000 years.
A bee could travel 4 million miles (6.5 million km) at 7 mph (11km/h) on the energy it would obtain from 1 gallon (3.785 liters) of nectar.
The people who live on Tristan da Cunha are over 2,000km (about 1,300 miles) from their nearest neighbours on the island of St. Helena. That's nearly as far as Moscow is from London.
There are more beetles than any other kind of creature in the world.
Earth is tipped at 23 and 1/2 degrees in orbit. That axis is what causes our seasons.
The deepest depth in the ocean is 36,198 feet (6.9 miles or 11 kilometers) at the Mariana Trench, in the Pacific Ocean well south of Japan near the Mariana Islands.
The longest recorded distance flown by any chicken is 301.5 feet (about 92 meters) in 13 seconds.
The saltiest sea in the world is the Red Sea with 41 parts of salt per 1,000 parts of water.
Each winter there are about 1 septillion (1, 000, 000, 000, 000, 000, 000, 000, 000 or a trillion trillion) snow crystals that drop from the sky.
The ocean holds immense quantities of protein. The total annual commercial harvest from the seas exceeds 85 million metric tons. Fish is the biggest source of wild or domestic protein in the world.
An elephant's trunk can grow to be about 2 metres long and can weigh up to 140 kg. Some scientists believe that an elephant's trunk is made up of 100,000 muscles, but no bones.
Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 90% of the human body.
Dendrochronology is the science of calculating a tree's age by its rings.
A lightning bolt travels at about 14,000mph and brings 300,000 volts of electricity to the ground.
Chameleons often have tongues longer than their bodies.
The little Alaskan Wood Frog is capable of reviving itself back to normal life after staying completely frozen for months, during which its heart, brain and other organs stop functioning.
Certain species of male butterflies produce scents that serve in attracting females during courtship.
The Reticulated Pythons are the world's longest snake and also the longest reptile.
In one day a hurricane can release enough energy to supply all of the nation's electrical needs for about six months.
Bananas are actually herbs. Bananas die after fruiting, like all herbs do.
Only humans sleep on their backs.
In seahorses, it's the male who gives birth to the young.
The top 10 feet of the ocean hold the same amount of thermal energy as exists in the entire atmosphere.
84% of a raw apple and 96% of a raw cucumber is water. Source of this fact and the next fourteen.
The Largest Ocean of the World is the Pacific Ocean (155,557,000 sq km), It covers nearly one-third of the Earth's surface.
According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the single-seeded fruit of the giant fan palm, or Lodoicea maldivica, can weigh 44 lbs. Commonly known as the double coconut or coco de mer, it is found wild only in the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean.
A wolf can run at a speed of 65 kilometres per hour during a chase. Wolves have long legs and spend most of their time trotting at a speed of 12-16 kilometres per hour. They can keep up a reasonable pace for hours and have been known to cover distances of 90 kilometres in one night.
Wine grapes, oranges, figs and olives were first planted in North America by Father Junipero Sera in 1769.
The hottest planet in the solar system is Venus, with an estimated surface temperature of 864 F (462 C).
About 540 volcanoes on land are known. No one knows how many undersea volcanoes have erupted through history.
Trees provide food and shelter for wildlife.
Turtles and sea cucumbers can breathe through their butts.
Oranges, lemons, watermelons, and tomatoes are berries.
There are more bacteria and microbes in our body than actual cells that make up the body.
The elephant's trunk is able to sense the size, shape and temperature of an object. An elephant uses its trunk to lift food and suck up water then pour it into its mouth.
In 1924, Pope Urban VIII threatened to excommunicate snuff users.
A corn field of one acre gives of 4,000 gallons off water per day in evaporation.
The Sahara Desert in northern Africa is more than 23 times the size of southern California's Mojave Desert.
Average 100 lightning strikes occur worldwide every second.
The leaf bug of ceylon (phyllum sicci folium) has legs and antennae the color and shape of leaves, has indentations on its body like the vein marks on a leaf, and hangs from branches, swaying in the breeze exactly like a leaf.
In your lifetime, you'll shed over 40 pounds of skin.
Asparagus plants are perennials, which means the same asparagus plant will produce spears year after year. In fact, one plant may produce spears for up to 25 years!
At 39 degrees Fahrenheit (3.89 degrees Celsius), the temperature of almost all of the deep ocean is only a few degrees above freezing.
Shade trees can make buildings up to 20 degrees cooler in the summer.
The Antarctic Ice Sheet holds nearly 90 percent of the world's ice and 70 percent of its fresh water. If the entire ice sheet were to melt, sea level would rise by nearly 220 feet.
Avocados have the highest calories of any fruit at 167 calories per hundred grams.
Small cockroaches are more likely to die on their backs than large cockroaches.
Earth is the only planet on which water can exist in liquid form on the surface.
If all major forms of cardiovascular disease were eliminated, human life expectance would increase by 9.78 years.
95% of all the animal species on the earth are insects.
It takes approximately 12 hours for food to entirely digest.
84% of a raw apple is water.
Some seeds stay alive for only a few days and after that they won't sprout at all. Some other seeds need a rest period before they can sprout.
Crickets hear through their knees.
The origin of the word 'volcano' is derives from Vulcan, the Roman god of fire.
A 1960 Chilean earthquake was the strongest earthquake in recent times, which occurred off the coast, had a magnitude of 9.6 and broke a fault more than 1000 miles (1600 kilometers) long.
The largest hailstone ever recorded in the United States was nearly the size of a soccer ball. It was a 7-inch wide chunk of ice.
Caspian Sea, Asia-Europe is the major lake (371,000 sq km) in the world.
If you shrunk a car to the size of a roach, the roach could outrun the car. Roaches can run about 200 scale miles per hour.
Pistils have three parts - the stigma, the style, and the ovary.
Fifty-seven percent of the world?s forests, including most tropical forests, are located in developing countries.
Canada has the longest coastline of any country, at 56,453 miles or around 15 percent of the world's 372,384 miles of coastlines.
The eruption of Tambora volcano is the world's deadliest Volcano in Indonesia in 1815 is estimated to have killed 90,000 people.
A group of herring is called a seige. A group of jelly fish is called a smack.
Groundwater comprises a 30 times greater volume than all freshwater lakes, and more than 3,000 times what's in the world's streams and rivers at any given time.
Any Female bee in a beehive could have been the queen if she had been fed the necessary royal jelly. All female bees in a given hive are sisters.
Stems usually continue to grow upward above the ground and bear leaves in a pattern along the stem. Click this link to see some plant patterns!
Tree rings provide precise information about environmental events, including volcanic eruptions.
Since the architecture and chemistry of coral are very close to human bone, coral has been used to replace bone grafts in helping human bones to heal quickly and cleanly.
Temperate rainforests used to exist on almost every continent in the world, but today only 50 percent - 75 million acres - of these forests remain worldwide.
Female elephants are called cows. They start to have calves when they are about 12 years old and they are pregnant for 22 months.
Fish are the only vertebrates that outnumber birds.
A tree does not reach its most productive stage of carbon storage for about 10 years.
Elephants are the only land animal that can't jump.
Cheetah's can accelerate from 0 to 70 km/h in 3 seconds.
The word 'Arctic' comes from the ancient Greek Arktikos, or 'country of the great bear.' Though the Greeks had no knowledge of the polar bear, they named the region after the constellation Ursus Major, the Great Bear, found in the Northern Sky.
The age of the earth is Loudly proclaimed by the scientific establishment of evolution believers and the mass media as being around 4.6 billion years old.
There are 109 countries with coral reefs. Reefs in 90 of them are being damaged by cruise ship anchors and sewage, by tourists breaking off chunks of coral, and by commercial harvesting for sale to tourists.
The top three countries have the greatest number of historically active volcanoes are Indonesia, Japan, and the United States in descending order of activity.
The normal energy used by our brain is 0.1 calories per minute, and could go up to 1.5 during activities such as puzzle-solving.
Plants that need to attract moths for pollination are generally white or pale yellow, to be better seen when the light is dim. Plants that depend on butterflies, such as the poppy or the hibiscus, have more colorful flowers.
Some spiders have as many as eight eyes.
Honeybees have remained unchanged in form or structure for 20 million years.
The highest temperature produced in a laboratory was 920,000,000 F (511,000,000 C) at the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor in Princeton, NJ, USA.
In 1899, it was so cold that the Mississippi River froze over its entire length.
The lowest dry point on earth is the Dead Sea in the Middle East is about 1300 feet (400 meters) below sea level.
The human brain is 75% water.
Most of the nutrients in a potato reside just below the skin layer.
The world's largest island is Greenland, it covers 840,000 square miles (2,176,000 square kilometers).
93% of a water melon is water.
Birth Rate of Hong Kong is the lowest (7.29/1000) & Niger is highest (50.73/1000).
A woodpecker can peck with a force as high as 1,200 g's with each impact - equivalent to a human striking head against a wall at a speed of 25km (16 miles) an hour each time.
99% of the pumpkins sold in the US end up as jack-o-lanterns.
About half the communications between nations are via underwater cables.
The most frequently found item in beach cleanups are pieces of plastic. The next four items are plastic foam, plastic utensils, pieces of glass and cigarette butts.
A cockroach can live for several weeks without its head.
A bee has four wings.
The air located around a lightning bolt is heated to around 30,000 degrees Celsius. This is 5 times hotter than the surface of the sun.
Trees renew our air supply by absorbing carbon dioxide and producing oxygen.
