Dead SeaThe Dead Sea is so dense with salt, you can easily float on it without drowning.
A dogs heart beats 40 times a minute faster than yours.
Rafflesia Arnoldii is the largest flower in world, and can grow as big as an umbrella.
The hottest planet in the solar system is Venus, with an estimated surface temperature of 864 F (462 C).
Alcorn State University in Lorman is the oldest black land grant college in the world.
There is enough energy in one bolt of lightning to power a home for two weeks.
Katmandu is the capital of Nepal.
While only 2% in weight, the human brain requires 15% of the body's heart work, 20% of oxygen and 25% of all glucose.
The average distance between the Earth & the Moon is 238,857 miles (384,392 km).
Termites can't digest wood, the protozoa in their stomach (they eat them when they are younger) actually are the devourers of the wood.
The company that makes Icee Drinks is in Edwards.
After eating, a housefly regurgitates its food and then eats it again!
Air becomes liquid at about minus 190 degrees Celsius.
The ears of a cricket are located on the front legs, just below the knee.
Some species of earthworm can have as many as 10 hearts.
When baby giraffes are born, they drop six feet to the ground and land on their heads.
The shark has to keep moving to stay alive.
To avoid predators, a mother Slow Loris licks its offspring with poison before sending them off to search for food.
A mole can dig a tunnel 300 feet long in just one night.
Nine out of every 10 living things live in the ocean.
40 to 50 percent of body heat can be lost through the head (no hat) as a result of its extensive circulatory network.
The penguin is the only bird who can swim, but cannotfly.
The katydid bug hears through holes in its hind legs!
When Joseph Gayetty invented toilet paper in 1857, he had his name printed on each sheet.
The leg muscles of a locust are about 1000 times more powerful than an equal weight of human muscle.
Avocados have the highest fibre and calories of any fruit.
The Earth orbits the sun at an average speed of 107,220 kms per hour.
The city of Dallas is known as 'The Big D.'
There's enough gold in the Earth's crust to cover the entire land surface knee-deep.
The microwave was invented after a researcher walked by a radar tube and a chocolate bar melted in his pocket.
The human eye blinks an average of 4,200,000 times each year.
In your lifetime your body will produce more thatn 25,000 quarts of saliva.
Some ribbon worms will eat themselves if they can't find any food.
October 10 is National Metric Day.
The only nation whose name begins with an 'A', but doesn't end in an 'A' is Afghanistan.
Cars were first made with ignition keys in 1949.
The worlds fastest-growing plant is the giant water lily, which grows almost a foot a day.
There are more beetles than any other kind of creature in the world.
If you stretch a standard Slinky out flat it measures 87 feet long.
You can convert graphite into diamond by applying a temperature of 3000 Celsius and pressure of 100,000 atm.
The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
Mosquitoes like the scent of estrogen, hence, women get bitten by mosquitoes more often than men do.
A new born blue whale measures 20-26 feet (6.0 - 7.9 meters) long and weighs up to 6,614 pounds (3003 kg).
While hibernating, frogs breathe through their skin.
A solar panel 100 miles by 100 miles (161x161km) in the Mojave Desert (USA) could replace all the coal now burned to generate electricity in the entire U.S.
If given the same mass, our body would actually be hotter than the sun.
Gold is the only metal that doesn't rust, even if it is buried in the ground for thousands of years.
An ostrich's eye is bigger that its brain.
An ostrich egg is also the largest existing single cell.
Devon is the only county in Great Britain to have two coasts.
The sky is blue because when sunlight collides with our atmosphere, colours of the shortest wavelengths (violet and blue) are scattered - and our eyes are more sensitive to see blue.
Did you know that African Elephants stay on their feet for 30 to 40 year?
Forty six percent of the world's water is in the Pacific Ocean. The Atlantic has 23.9 percent; the Indian, 20.3; the Arctic, 3.7 percent.
Men get hiccups more often than women do.
In a life time, your heart will pump about 50,000,000 gallons. That's enough to fill 2,500 rail road cars 21 miles long.
The deepest location on Earth is Mariana Trench, about 11km deep in the North Pacific ocean.
A zebra is white with black stripes.
Shrimp's hearts are in their heads.
The oldest field game in America is Stickball founded by the Choctaw Indians of Philadelphia.
Ten minutes of one hurricane contains enough energy to match the nuclear stockpiles of the world.
Using satellite-surveying techniques, scientists have determined that Los Angeles, California is moving east. At a rate estimated to be about one-fifth on an inch per year, the city is moving closer to the San Gabriel Mountains.
Official studies have found that right handed people tend to scratch with their left hand and visa-versa.
Talc is the softest known substance.
A space vehicle must move at a rate of at least 27.35km (17 miles) per second to escape Earth's gravity.
Pumice floatingThe only rock that floats in water is pumice.
Every four days the worlds population increases by one million people.
55,700 people in the US are injured by jewelry each year.
According to NASA, the U.S. has the world's most violent weather. In a typical year, the U.S. can expect some 10,000 violent thunderstorms, 5,000 floods, 1,000 tornadoes and several hurricanes.
For every 1000 red blood cells in our body, there is only about one white cell.
Peanuts are one of the ingredients in Dynamite.
It takes light 8 minutes to trave lfrom the sun.
The rings of Saturn are made of ice chunks; some as small as an ice cube and some are as big as a house.
Most gemstones contain several elements. The exception? The diamond. It's all carbon.
Chameleons often have tongues longer than their bodies.
The most remote island in the world is Tristan da Cunha, which is above the sub-Antarctic zone.
The first PTA was in Crystal Springs.
40 years ago: An all-female population of lizards was discovered in Armenia.
Elephants are the only land animal that can't jump.
The Atlantic Ocean grows at about the same rate as your fingernails.
A new star is born in our galaxy every 18 days.
Honeybees have remained unchanged in form or structure for 20 million years.
The human eye blinks an average of 4,200,000 times a year.
Our eyes can distinguish as many as 10 million distinct colour variations.
French speaking residents of Belgium are called Walloons.
Lorne Greene had one of his nipples bitten off by an alligator while he was host of Lorne Greens Wild Kingdom.
The cigarette lighter was invented before the match.
Dolphins cannot stay long underwater because they breathe through their blowholes above water. S
The starfish is one of the only animals who can turn it's stomach inside-out.
Crocodiles swallow stones to help them dive deeper.
A full grown bear can run as fast as a horse.
Unlike humans, canaries can regenerate their brain cells.
Chalk is made of trillions of microscopic skeleton fossils of plankton (a tiny sea creature).
If an item moves very, very fast, it becomes smaller and heavier.
A pigs orgasm lasts for thirty minutes.
In Miami, Florida, roosting vultures have taken to snatching poodles from rooftop patios.
The world's smallest flowering plant is the Wolffia, whose one full bouquet of flowers can fit on the head of a push-pin.
The highest temperature produced in a laboratory was 920,000,000 F (511,000,000 C) at the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor in Princeton, NJ, USA.
Eighty-five percent of all life on Earth is Plankton.
Seoul, the South Korean capital, just means 'the capital' in the Korean language.
Whales were once land mammals that moved to the sea and adapted to marine life.
Twenty percent of Earth's oxygen is produced by the Amazon forest.
Despite being closest to the sun, Mercury is not the hottest planet. The hottest planet is Venus (at 462 Celsius).
The saguaro cactus of the Arizona Desert grows less than one inch in its first 10 years.
The first people to arrive on Iceland were Irish explorers, in 795 A.D.
The Sun loses 360 million tonnes of material each day.
A hedgehog's heart beats 300 times a minute on average.
Most gemstones contain several elements, except diamond which is all carbon.
Ants cannot chew their food, they move their jaws sideways, like scissors, to extract the juices from the food.
The pouch under a pelicans bill holds up to 25 pounds of fish and water.
Rats multiply so quickly that in 18 months, two rats could have over 1 million descendents.
Folding money was invented by the Chinese, it was made of deerskin.
The U.S. mint in Denver, Colorado is the only mint that marks its pennies.
The human head is a quarter of our total length at birth, but only an eighth of our total length by the time we reach adulthood.
Bore-hole seismometry indicates that the land in Oklahoma moves up and down 25cm throughout the day, corresponding with the tides. Earth tides are generally about one-third the size of ocean tides.
There are ten times as many sheep as people in Australia.
54% of Americans fold toilet paper neatly. 35% wad it. What about the other 11%?
Nearly all boys grow at least as tall as their mothers.
Chimpanzees are the only animals that can recognize themselves in a mirror.
The Earth-Moon size ratio is the largest in our solar system, excepting Pluto-Charon.
By some estimates, there are about a million earthquakes a day, although most are too small to be felt by even the most sensitive.
An estimated one in five Americans (some 38 million don�'t like sex).
About 1000 Earths would fit inside Jupiter - and the Sun could hold about 1000 Jupiters.
The lips of a hippopotamus are nearly two feet wide.
People in Sweden, Japan, and Canada are more likely to know the population of the United States than are Americans.
A person could grow 600 complete eyelashes in a life time.
A hippo can open its mouth wide enough to fit a 4 foot tall child inside.
Ireland currently has the fastest growing economy in Europe - the economy grew by 40% from 1993-1997. It is for this reason that the country is referred to as the Celtic Tiger.
Dolphins and whales are mammals that don't drink water.
Scientists think the universe is 15 billion years old.
The chiao is an official unit of currency in China. Also known as jiao, it is a copper-zinc coin that is one-tenth of a yuan and equal to 10 fen.
In seahorses, it's the male who gives birth to the young.
The average person has over 1,460 dreams a year.
Water expands by about 10% as it freezes.
If a pinhead-size piece of the Sun were placed on Earth, one would have to stand as far as 145 kilometers (90 miles) away to be safe.
There are more people in New York City (7,895,563) than there are in the states of Alaska, Vermont, Wyoming, South Dakota, New Hampshire, Nevada, Idaho, Utah, Hawaii, Delaware, and New Mexico combined.
30 years ago: The computer mouse was invented.
In Brazil, Christmas is celebrated with fireworks.
The average American eats at McDonalds 1,811 times in their life.
The Earth weighs 6.6 sextillion tons, or 5.97 x 1024 kg.
There are more insects in a single square mile of fertile soil than there are people on the entire earth.
An ostrichs eye is bigger than it's brain.
A woodpecker can peck with a force as high as 1,200 g's with each impact - equivalent to a human striking head against a wall at a speed of 25km (16 miles) an hour each time.
Olympus Mons on Mars is the largest volcano in our solar system, almost three times taller than Mount Everest on Earth.
When snakes are born with two heads, they fight each other for food.
The Earth's average velocity orbiting the sun is 107,220 km per hour.
The female preying mantis initiates sex by ripping the males head off.
A hummingbirds heart beats 1,260 times per minute.
Despite a population of over a billion, China has only about 200 family names.
Nose prints are used to identify dogs, just like humans use finger prints!
Cockroaches can survive underwater for up to 15 minutes.
The three winter months in the southern hemisphere are June, July and August.
Surprisingly, there was a time that the Vatican owned shares of the Watergate complex in Washington DC, the Pan American building in Paris, and the Hilton hotel in Rome.
By raising your legs slowly and laying on your back, you can't sink in quicksand.
You shed and regrow your skin every 28 days, that's about 1000 times in a lifetime.
The sun is 330,330 times larger than the earth.
There are only three world capitals that begin with the letter 'O' in English: Ottawa, Canada; Oslo, Norway; and Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.
If you yelled for 8 years, 7 months and 6 days, you would have produced just enough sound energy to heat up one cup of coffee.
Absolutely pure gold is so soft that it can be moulded with the hands.
Dogs and cats, like humans, are either right of left handed or is that pawed?!
Snakes are true carnivorous because they eat nothing but other animals. They do not eat any type of plant material.
The Republic of San Marino is the world's smallest republic (24 sq. miles) and possibly the oldest state in Europe (founded 4th century AD, according to tradition.)
Armadillos can walk underwater.
A gallon of water weighs 8.34 pounds (3.8kg).
Sharks have no air bladders, so they must swim constantly or they'll sink.
The eyes of a giant squid can be up to 15 inches across the biggest in the world.
The average person laughs 13 times a day.
Hawaii is moving toward Japan 4 inches every year.
The North Atlantic gets 2.5 centimetres (1in) wider every year.
On average, our bodies constantly resist an atmospheric pressure of about 1 kilogram per square inch.
100 years ago: The first virus was found in both plants and animals.
There wasn't a single pony in the Pony Express, just horses!
Fleas can jump 130 times higher than their own height. In human terms, that's a 6ft tall person jumping 780 ft in the air.
Without any greenhouse effect, Earth would be cold and lifeless with an average temperature of 0.4 degrees Fahrenheit.
The number of neuron cells in our brain is more than the total number of stars in our galaxy.
From the age of thirty, humans gradually begin to shrink in size.
J.B Dunlop was first to put air into tires.
Since the 1930's the town of Corona, CA has buried, and lost, all 17 of its time capsules.
The largest painting on earth is a 72437 square foot smiley face.
The longest cells in the human body are the motor neurons. They can be up to 4.5 feet (1.37 meters) long and run from the lower spinal cord to the big toe.
A cat has a normal body temperature of 101.5. A dogs is 101.
Canada has more lakes than the rest of the world combined.
A leech can drink up to eight time its weight in blood at one sitting.
Hershey's Kisses are called that because the machine that makes them looks like it's kissing the conveyor belt.
5 years ago: The first successful cloning of human embryo
The Golden 'Poison Dart' frog in South America is most poisonous vertebrate in the world.
Millie the White House dog earned more than 4 times as much as President Bush in 1991.
The cow has four stomachs, as most ruminant mammals do.
The human brain is 75% water.
The oldest Holiday Inn is in Clarkesdale.
A group of geese on the ground is a gaggle, a group of geese in the air is a skein.
The world's largest amphibian is the giant salamander. It can grow up to 5 ft. in length.
Alaska is the only state without a state motto.
Hydrogen is the most abundant element in the Universe (75%).
The male gypsy moth can smell the virgin female gypsy moth from 1.8 miles away.
The largest frog in the world is The Goliath Frog of Gabon in West Africa and can grow as big as 33cm long and up to 3kg heavy.
Shark's teeth are literally as hard as steel.
Australia is the richest source of mineral sands in the world.
The twin towers of New Yorks World Trade Center contain 208 elevators. Elevators rank as the safest form of transportation, boasting only one fatality every 100 million miles traveled. Stairs, in comparison, are five times more dangerous.
The average garden variety caterpillar has 248 muscles in its head.
The amount of carbon in the human body is enough to fill about 9,000 'lead' pencils.
A flies taste buds are on its feet.
The most dangerous animal in the world is the common housefly. Because of their habits of visiting animal waste, they transmit more diseases than any other animal.
A parrots vocabulary is generally no more than 20 words.
The clouds on Venus are made of deadly sulfuric acid.
A car travelling at 80 km/h uses half its fuel to overcome wind resistance.
A bolt of lightning is about 54,000 degrees F (30,000 degrees C); six times hotter than the Sun.
Some species of Bamboo can grow at the rate of 1 metres in 24 hours.
The heaviest human brain ever recorded weighed 5 lb. 1.1 oz. (2.3 kg.).
Footprints astronauts make on the moon will remain for millions of years due to the fact that there is no wind to blow them away.
Six people can feast on one ostrich egg for breakfast.
One inch (2.5cm) of rain is equal to 10 inches (25cm) of snow.
A crocodile's tongue is attached to the roof of its mouth.
Goodyear rubber company researched and concluded that shoes wear out faster on the rightfoot than the left.
The world seahorse population has dropped 70% in the past 10 years.
Our eyes are always the same size from birth, but our nose and ears never stop growing.
Coca Cola was founded by Joseph A. Biedenharn in Vicksburg.
The moon is 27% the size of the Earth.
A giraffe can clean its ears with its 21-inch tongue.
A female african elephant can be pregnant for almost 2 years.
Armadillos get an average of 18.5 hours of sleep per day.
The embryos of tiger sharks fight each other while in their mother's womb, the survivor being the baby shark that is born.
A cat's jaws cannot move sideways.
The smallest bone in the human body is the stapes or stirrup bone located in the middle ear. It is approximately .11 inches (.28 cm) long.
The moon orbits the Earth every 27.32 days
The bark of the redwood tree is fireproof.
The Mississippi Legislature passed one of the first laws in 1839 to protect the property rights of married women.
Butterflies use their feet to taste things.
Tremendous erosion at the base of Niagara Falls (USA) undermines the shale cliffs and as a result the falls have receded approximately 7 miles over the last 10,000 years.
On international license plates Spain is represented by the letter E for Espana.
The United States has never lost a war in which mules were used.
Sterling silver contains 7.5% copper.
The most powerful laser in the world, the Nova laser at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, CA, USA, generates a pulse of energy equal to 100,000,000,000,000 watts of power for .000000001 second to a target the size of a grain of sand.
Healthy nails grow about 2 cm each year. Fingernails grow four times as fast as toenails.
There are more species of fish in Amazon river than in the entire Atlantic Ocean (Over 2,000).
A dwarf star is so dense that it would take 8 men to lift a teaspoon full of its matter.
Emus and kangaroos cannot walk backwards.
The peacock male is called a male and the female, a peahen.
Porcupines float in water.
One of Jupiter's moons is believed to grow and shrink because of the water beneath its frozen surface.
There are 3,900 islands in the country Japan, the country of islands.
One cord of wood can make 7 and a half million toothpicks.
Ice-cream cones were first served in 1904 at the worlds fair in St. Louis, MO. US Patent # 3,477,070.
A jellyfish is 95 percent water!
Lake Baikal is the deepest lake in the world.
Hummingbirds are the only animals able to fly backwards.
The North Atlantic gets 1 inch wider every year.
The circumference of the Earth at the equator is 24,896 miles.
The Dominican Republic was called Santo Domingo when it first gain independence.
MCW in Columbus was the first state college for women in the country established in 1884.
The elephant is the only animal with four knees.
The star Sirius B is so dense, a handful of it weighs about 454,000 kgs (1 million pounds.)
The forest of Canadian Lake District is so dense that during winter the snow stays on top of the trees and the forest floor stays bare.
The worlds biggest clam weighs almost 500 pounds.
Bird droppings are the chief export of Nauru, an island nation in the western Pacific.
A crocodile cannot stick out its tongue.
Most stars shine for at least 10 billion years.
The human body has enough fat to produce 7 bars of soap.
Sunlight takes about 8 minutes & 20 seconds to reach the Earth at 186,282 miles/sec (299,792 Km/sec).
The royal house of Saudi Arabia has close to 10,000 princes and princesses.
In one day an average person will take about 18,000 steps.
The normal energy used by our brain is 0.1 calories per minute, and could go up to 1.5 during activities such as puzzle-solving.
The world's largest democracy is India, with a much larger population than the United States and pretty good turn-out in elections, although it also has lots of election violence. Democracy is the fastest-spreading form of government worldwide.
Black ironwood tree, The world's densest wood, the Black Ironwood (Olea laurifolia), does not float on water and therefore sinks.
The largest city in Africa is Cairo in Egypt.
A goldfish (like most marine fish) can survive in a tank full of human blood.
The worlds largest flower is the Rafflesia arnoldi. It can grow to the size of an umbrella.
Super Glue was invented by accident. The researcher was trying to make optical coating materials, and would test their properties by putting them between two prisms and shining light through them. When he tried the cyano-acrylate, he couldn't get the prisms apart.
The earliest cockroach fossils are about 280 million years old.
Giraffes could pass out with blood filling their brain when they lower their neck, so they have a sponge-like organ in the head which slowly gathers and releases blood.
California condors can fly 10 miles without flapping their wings.
Saturn's moon Titan has hundreds of times more oil and natural gas than all the known reserves on Earth.
A car traveling at 80 km/h uses half its fuel to overcome wind resistance.
Sunlight can penetrate clean ocean water to a depth of 240 feet.
Gold and Copper are the only two non-white metals.
A hard working adult sweats up to 4 gallons per day. Most of the sweat evaporates before a person realizes it is there though!
A Boeing 707 uses four thousand gallons of fuel in its take-off climb.
Starfish have no brain.
There is enough fuel in a full tank of a jumbo jet to drive an average car around the world four times.
Resin Bowie, the inventor of the Bowie knife is buried at Pt. Gibson.
Porcupines float in water!
An ounce of gold can be stretched into a wire 80 kms (50 miles) long.
The life of an eyelash is about 5 months.
Baby robins eat 14 feet of earthworms every day.
The average American makes six trips to the bathroom every day; thats about 2 1/2 years of your life down the drain.
The DNA in a single human cell is 37 metres long when unravelled.
Given sufficient amounts of chocolate candies, pigs can master video game skills, and perform far better than dogs.
One acre of trees produces enough oxygen for 18 people every day.
The Virginia opossum has a gestation period of only 12-13 days.
Boron nitride (BN) is the second hardest substance known to man.
The female Tarantula Hawk wasp paralyzes a large spider with her sting. She then lays her eggs on the motionless body so that her developing young have a fresh supply of spider meat to feed on.
The first known contraceptive was crocodile dung used by ancient Egyptians in 2000 BC.
Female mosquitoes flap their wings nearly 500 times per second.
The U-S Park Service says the older Old Faithful gets, the more the geyser at Yellowstone National Park slows down. In the 1950s, it erupted every 62 minutes. Lately, it's been erupting every 77 minutes. Some experts say Old Faithful may someday just stop.
Thailand used to be called Siam.
An alligator may go through 2000 to 3000 teeth in a lifetime.
Starfish have eight eyes; one at the end of each leg.
When the Eiffel Tower was built in 1884, Parisians referred to it as 'the tragic lamppost' and nearly universally hated it.
A neutron star is the strongest magnet in the universe.
The blesbok, a South African antelope, is almost the same color as grapejuice.
Rats can swim for half a mile (0.8 km) without rest, and can tread water for three straight days.
There is a resort town in New Mexico called 'Truth or Consequences.'
Cats can hear ultrasound.
By the age of 75, the average American has created about 110,000 pounds of garbage.
The many sights that represent the Chinese city of Beijing were built by foreigners: the Forbidden City was built by the Mongols, the Temple of Heaven by the Manchurians.
The longest recorded flight of a chicken is 13 seconds.
Cats have over one hundred vocal sounds, while dogs only have about ten.
The national anthem of the Netherlands 'Het Wilhelmus,' is an 'acrostichon.' The first letters of each of the fifteen verses represent the name 'Willem Van Nassov.'
Every time you lick a stamp, you're consuming 1/10 of a calorie.
Flying from London to New York by Concord, due to the time zones crossed, you can arrive 2 hours before you leave.
The first ten feet of the ocean hold as much heat as the Earth's entire atmosphere.
A bucket full of water contains more atoms than there are bucketfuls of water in the Atlantic Ocean.
A dog can understand between 35 to 40 commands.
The oldest multicellular fossils date from ~700 million years ago.
There is enough fuel in a full tank of a Jumbo Jet to drive an average car four times around the world.
According to the World Heath Organization, there are approximately 100 million acts of sexual intercourse each day.
20 years ago: First test-tube baby born in England, Pluto's moon, Charon, discovered.
The Venus flytrap takes less than half a second to slam shut on an insect.
The surface area of the Earth is 197,000,000 square miles.
There are 60,000 miles (97,000 km) in blood vessels in every human.
Women blink nearly twice as much as men.
The longest living cells in the body are brain cells which can live an entire lifetime.
Fortune cookies were actually invented in America, in 1918, by Charles Jung!
Bulls are colorblind, therefore will usually charge at a matadors waving cape no matter what color it is be it red or neon yellow!
The largest telescope in the world is currently being constructed in northern Chile. The telescope will utilize four - 26 ft. 8 in. (8.13 meters) mirrors which will gather as much light as a single 52 ft. 6 in. (16 meters) mirror.
Everything weighs one percent less at the equator.
The sun is 93,000,000 miles from the earth.
Eighty-five percent of all the plants and animals live in the sea.
An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain.
A hummingbird weighs less than a penny.
The greatest tide change on earth occurs in the Bay of Fundy. The difference between low tide and high tide can be as great as 16.6 meters (54 ft.)
The waste produced by one chicken in its lifetime can supply enough electricity to run a 100 watt bulb for five hours.
The cosmos contains approximately 50,000,000,000 galaxies.
The little Alaskan Wood Frog is capable of reviving itself back to normal life after staying completely frozen for months, during which its heart, brain and other organs stop functioning.
Iowa has more independent telephone companies than any other state.
Earths oceans contain 7 1/2 million tons of gold, dissolved in the water.
Nepal's flag isn't rectangular. Or square. It's two triangles, sorta.
The acceleration rate of a flea's jump is 20 times that of a space shuttle during launch.
Ostriches stick their heads in the sand to look for water.
Every second, the Sun pumps more than a million tons of material into the space through the solar wind (electrically charged particles.)
The liver is the only organ able to regenerate itself completely.
The average person has 100,000 hairs on their head.
The praying mantis is the only insect that can turn its head!
The original fifty cent piece in Australian decimal currency had around $2.00 worth of silver in it before it was replaced with a less expensive twelve sided coin.
The hurricane plant has holes in its leaves, which keep it from being destroyed by wind.
For the first time, the number of pet cats in the US now outnumbers the number of dogs, 60 million vs. 50 million.
A hedgehogs heart beats 300 times a minute on average.
Shortest Intercontinental Commercial Flight in the world is from Gibraltar (Europe) to Tangier (Africa.) Distance 34 miles, flight time 20 minutes.
A shrimps heart is located in it's head.
Certain frogs that can survive the experience of being frozen.
Torontos original name was York, but it had another name long before that. The area near the shores of Lake Ontario was called 'the meeting place' by the Ojibway of Southern Ontario. Their word: Toronto.
Due to its size, Pluto's moon Charon is also considered to be a double dwarf planet (two planets orbiting each other), rather than a moon orbiting its planet.
Dynamite contains peanuts as an ingredient.
Every year in the US, 625 people are struck by lightning.
Rome is considered 'The Eternal City.'
An elephant trunk can hold two gallons of water.
The moon is one million times drier than the Gobi Desert.
West Virginia consists of those counties of Virginia which refused to secede from the Union at the start of the Civil War. Maine used to be part of Massachusetts. The original colonies made all kinds of land claims for the frontier west of them.
A dragonfly's first six months of life are spent underwater. After this time, it comes out of the water, sheds its outer skin, and starts flying, but if it falls in the water after it has shed its skin, it drowns.
Cows can smell odors six miles away.
Dogs and cats consume over $11 billion worth of pet food a year!
Mr. Peanut was invented in 1916 by a Suffolk, Virginia, schoolchild who won $5 in a design contest sponsored by Planters Peanuts.
Residents of the Havasupai Indian Reservation in Northern Arizona get their mail delivered by mule.
The greatest tide change on earth occurs in the Bay of Fundy. The difference between low tide and high tide can be as great as 54 ft. 6 in. (16.6 meters).
Elephants have been known to remain standing after they die.
Giraffes are unable to cough.
A newborn kangaroo is small enough to fit into a teaspoon.
The lowest temperature on Earth was -128.6 degrees F (-89.6 degrees C) in Antarctica in 1983.
Cheetah's can accelerate from 0 to 70 km/h in 3 seconds.
The center of the Sun is about 27 million degrees Fahrenheit (15 million degrees C).
An average adult human has skin weighing about 3 kilograms in total.
Alexander Graham Bell, who invented the telephone, also set a world water-speed record of over seventy miles an hour at the age of seventy two.
When opossums are playing opossum, they are not playing. They actually pass out from sheer terror.
Most people take an average of seven minutes to fall asleep.
The world's smallest rodent is Pygmy Jerboa - measuring only a couple of inches in length - and can run as fast as a horse.
The fastest computer in the world is the CRAY Y-MP C90 supercomputer. It has two gigabytes of central memory and 16 parallel central processor units.
The blue whale can produce the loudest sound produced by an animal - up to 188 decibels - and detected as far away as 853 kms (530mi).
The birthplace of Elvis was in Tupelo.
No matter its size or thickness, no piece of paper can be folded in half more than 7 times.
Flea's can jump 130 times higher than their own height. In human terms this is equal to a 6ft. person jumping 780 ft. into the air.
It's impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
Pineapple is actually a giant berry.
Nearly a third of all bottled drinking water purchased in the US is contaminated with bacteria.
Olympus Mons on Mars is the largest volcano in our solar system.
The longest recorded distance flown by any chicken is 301.5 feet (about 92 meters) in 13 seconds.
Although it is closest to the Sun, Mercury has ice in its craters.
Oxygen is the most abundant element in the Earth's crust, waters, and atmosphere (about 49.5%)
According to Playboy Magazine, 99% of all cat and dog owners talk to their pets.
The German Bundestag, or Parliament, has 672 members and is the world's largest elected legislative body.
The Sun contains over 99.8 percent of the total material (mass) in our solar system, while Jupiter contains most of the rest.
The energy given off by a hurricane in one day would power the entire U.S for three years.
As an adult, you have more than 20 square feet of skin on your body--about the same square footage as a blanket for a queen-sized bed.
The world's smallest frog - The Little Grass Frog - is no bigger than a house fly.
The Hubble Space Telescope weighs 12 tons (10,896 kilograms), is 43 feet (13.1 meters) long, and cost $2.1 billion to originally build.
Honeybees have a type of hair on their eyes!
The temperature in fahrenheit can be determined by counting the number of cricket chirps in 14 seconds and adding 40.
The largest eggs in the world are laid by a shark.
The burning sensation we get from chilli peppers is because of a chemical called Capsaicin.
Each time lightning strikes, some Ozone gas is produced, thus strengthening the Ozone Layer in the Earth's atmosphere.
Mercury is the only metal that is liquid at room temperature.
The Earth is the densest planet in the solar system.
The first coast-to-coast telephone line was established in 1914.
Owls are one of the only birds who can see the color blue.
Mexico City is sinking at a rate of 18 inches per year as a result of draining the water table for human consumption.
Sound travels about 4 times faster in water than in air.
An inch (2.5 centimeters) of rain water is equivalent to 15 inches (38.1 centimeters) of dry, powdery snow.
Most lipstick contains fish scales!
Los Angeles and San Francisco become 2.5 inches closer together each year because they are on opposite sides of the San Andreas fault.
Uranus is tipped on its side so that one pole is pointed at the Sun, so its poles are warmer than its equator.
50 years ago: Velcro was invented.
At 840,000 square miles, Greenland is the largest island in the world. It is 3 times the size of Texas. By comparison Iceland is only 39,800 square miles.
According to an old English system of time units, a moment is one and a half minutes.
Ants do not sleep.
A rubber tire is actually one single giant molecule.
Since 1959, more than 6,000 pieces of 'space junk' (abandoned rocket and satellite parts) have fallen out of orbit - many of these have hit the earth's surface.
On average, 100 people choke to death on ballpoint pens every year.
The only borough of New York City that isn't an island or part of an island is the Bronx.
Lightning strikes about 6,000 times per minute on our planet.
Crux is the smallest of modern constellations, with only 4 bright stars.
Knowledge is growing so fast that ninety per cent of what we will know in fifty years time, will be discovered in those fifty years.
In a full grown rye plant, the total length of roots may reach 380 miles (613 km).
The average American/Canadian drinks about 600 sodas a year!
Zion, Illinois - located on the shores of Lake Michigan north of Chicago - was founded by the followers of John Alexander Dowie, whose Christian Catholic Church disapproved of pharmacies, doctors, theaters or dance halls. Smoking, drinking and the eating of pork also was prohibited in town.
The starfish species, Porcellanaster ivanovi, has been found to live in water as deep as 24,881 feet (7,584 meters).
England is smaller than New England.
The distance between an alligators eyes, in inches, is directly proportional to the length of the alligator in feet.
The highest temperature on Earth was 136 degrees F (58 degrees C) in Libya in 1922.
A cockroach will live nine days without it's head before it starves to death.
The catfish has over 27,000 taste buds, that makes the catfish rank #1 for an animal having the most taste buds.
Jupiter's core is non-metal, but due to the immense pressure inside Jupiter, the core has become a metal. This metal is liquid metallic hydrogen.
If you could cut out the United States, its center of gravity would be at Friend, Nebraska.
The full moon always rises at sunset and sets at sunrise.
The Philippines consist of 7,100 islands.
90 years ago: The Grand Canyon became a national monument & Cellophane is invented.
An anteater sticks its tongue in and out 100 times per minute to slurp up its food.
Desperate to increase veggie intake among children in Britain, researchers have developed chocolate-flavored carrots, pizza-flavored corn and baked-bean-flavored peas.
The animal with the largest brain in relation to its body is the ant.
The largest lake in South America is Lake Maracaibo.
In a 1-life-time average person will spend 24 years sleeping.
Seventy percent of the dust in your home consists of shed human skin
A starfish can turn its stomach inside out.
The worlds termites outweigh the worlds humans 10 to 1!
More types of fish swim in Brazils Amazon River than in the entire Alantic Ocean.
An eagle can kill a young deer and fly away with it.
In ancient Japan public contests were held to see who in a town could break wind loudest and longest. Winners were awarded many prizes and received great acclaim.
A day on Mercury, from sunrise to sunset, lasts about six Earth months.
An average adult body contains around 250g (1/2lb) of salt.
The Earth's equatorial circumference (40,075 km) is greater than its polar circumference (40,008 km).
The rocket engine has to supply its own oxygen so it can burn its fuel in outer space.
Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 90% of the human body.
Gorillas stick their tongues out when angry.
Only the female mosquito bites, the male does not.
Pennsylvania has more covered bridges than any other state. Vermont, a much smaller state, claims a greater density of covered bridges. (More bridges per square mile). Parke County, Indiana, claims more covered bridges than any other county, but Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, comes in second.
A large swarm of desert locusts (Schistocerca gregaria) can consume 20,000 tons (18,160,000 kilograms) of vegetation a day.
Zanzibar is known as 'Spice Island.'
Jupiter is so big that twice the mass of the rest of our Solar System's planets combined would still not be enough to equal its mass.
Slugs have 4 noses.
The Sun shrinks in diameter by 5 feet every hour.
When hydrogen burns in the air, water is formed.
Flamingos lay their eggs on top of volcano-shaped nests made of mud.
On a clear day, a beam of sunlight can be reflected off a mirror and seen up to 40km away.
40% of prescripition drugs dispensed in the U.S. have active ingredients derived from plants, animals or microorganisms, many of them from forests.
A worm is both male and female at the same time (a hermaphrodite.)
Some yaks milk is pink.
Hawaii is moving toward Japan 10 centimetres (4 inches) every year.
The poison arrow frogs of South and Central America are the most poisonous animals in the world.
The right lung takes in more air than the left.
The Sahara desert is expanding half a mile south every year.
The brain uses more than 25% of the oxygen used by the human body.
The Chang Jiang river is the fourth longest river in the world.
A single large tree can release up to 400 gallons of water into the atmosphere each day.
95% of all animals are invertebrates (without a backbone or spinal column).
The Methuselah tree in California, USA, is the oldest living organism (4,800 years old) known today.
In 1825 Upper Peru became Bolivia.
The fungus Cordyceps is able to 'mind-control' other insects like ants to climb plants and attach there to become its food.
On a trip to the South Sea islands, French painter Paul Gauguin stopped off briefly in Central America, where he worked as a laborer on the Panama Canal.
The most poisonous snake in the world is Belcher's Sea Snake or the Faint-banded Sea Snake (Hydrophis belcheri).
On Uranus, each pole gets around 42 years of continuous sunlight, followed by 42 years of darkness.
Portugal is the world's largest producer of cork. The country has regulations protecting cork trees dating back to 1320. During the 1920's and 30's, it became illegal to cut down the trees other than for essential thinning and removal of old non-producing trees.
If you slowly pour a handful of salt into a totally full glass of water it will not overflow. In fact, the water level will go down.
Chewing gum was invented by a dentist, named William Semple - as a way to exercise your jaws.
Lightning strikes about 6,000 times per minute on this planet.
Rafflesia flowers attract pollinating flies by looking and smelling like rotten meat.
The heaviest dog on record was a St. Bernard weighing 310 lbs.
Moths have no stomach.
Despite the hump, a camel's spine is straight.
The city of Istanbul straddles two separate continents, Europe and Asia.
F:Most people take an average of seven minutes to fall asleep.
The pressure at the centre of the Earth is 27,000 tons per square inch.
On an average, most people blink about 15,000 times in a 16-hour day (awake.)
Montpelier, Vermont is the only U.S. state capital without a McDonald's.
Every minute, 30-40,000 dead skin cells fall from your body.
The word 'condom' comes from Dr. Charles Condom (1630-1685)
Only five countries in Europe touch only one other: Portugal, Denmark, San Marino, Vatican City, and Monaco.
An iguana always lands on its feet.
DNA unravels at 7000 RPM (revolutions per minute).
Armadillos, opossums, and sloth's spend about 80% of their lives sleeping.
White dwarf stars can be as small as 1,000 miles across.
A cosmic year is the amount of time it takes the Sun to revolve around the center of the Milky Way, about 225 million years.
On male shirts the buttons are on the right side, on female shirts the left side. This is due to wealthy women using slaves many years ago to dress them. The buttons were on the right side to the slaves who buttoned up the shirts.
Muscles in the human body (640 in total) make up about half of the body weight.
There are more living organisms on the skin of a single human being than there are human beings on the surface of the earth.
Which of the 50 states has never had an earthquake? North Dakota.
The exact geographic center of the United States is near Lebanon, Kansas.
Liquid air looks like water with a bluish tint.
Rain falls at an average speed of 22 mph.
The human body has less muscles in it than a caterpillar.
The Skylab astronauts grew 1.5 - 2.25 inches (3.8 - 5.7 centimeters) due to spinal lengthening and straightening as a result of zero gravity.
In Calama, a town in the Atacama Desert of Chile, it has never rained.
Bats always turn left when exiting a cave.
Lobsters have blue blood.
The average person has 100,000 hairs on his/her head. Each hair grows about 5 inches (12.7 cm) every year.
Pluto is no longer considered a planet. It is now known as a 'Dwarf Planet'.
Newfoundland's time zone is half an hour off of all the others. So are Iran's, bits of India's, Afghanistan's, Burma's, and Nauru's. And some other islands. Like Australia.
The average human produces a quart of saliva a day -- about 10,000 gallons in a lifetime
The lightest organ in the human body is the lung.
80 years ago: The food mixer and the domestic refrigerator were invented.
A person would die if all of the toxic ingredients of one cigarette were directly injected into the bloodstream.
The adult heart pumps about 7,500 litres of blood every day.
The noble gas Xenon lasers can cut through materials that are so tough even diamond tipped blades will not cut.
Just twenty seconds worth of fuel remained when Apollo 11's lunar module landed on the moon.
On average, Elephants sleep for about 2 hours per day.
Mosquitos have teeth.
The Pistol Star is the most luminous star known - 10 million times the power of the Sun and as big as the size of Earth's entire orbit around the Sun.
The smallest country in Central America is El Salvador.
Interstellar space is not complete vacuum: there are a few hydrogen atoms per cubic centimeter.
The pupil of an octopus' eye is rectangular.
Earthworms have 5 hearts.
Since Neptune's discovery in 1846, it has made just about three-quarters of one revolution around the Sun.
More people use blue toothbrushes than red ones.
Earth is the only planet not named after a Roman or Greek god.
The average ocean floor is 12,000 feet.
Some lions mate over 50 times a day.
Most people blink about 17,000 times a day.
The ant can lift 50 times its own weight, and can pull 30 times its own weight.
The oldest known fossil is of a single-celled organism, blue-green algae, found in 3.2 billion year-old stones in South Africa.
It is estimated that a plastic container can resist decomposition for as long as 50,000 years.
The acid in a persons stomach is corrosive enough to melt iron.
The surface speed record on the moon is 10.56 miles per hour. It was set with the lunar rover.
The surface area of a human lung is equal to that of a tennis court.
Reversing Falls is in Canada, where the St. John River flows into the Bay of Fundy at St. John, New Brunswick. The rapids at this juncture flows normally at low tide, backwards at high tide. Between tides there is a 15-minute period in which the river is placid and boaters sail by very quickly.
Men have more blood in their circulatory system than women and more red blood cells.
Female aristocrats on the island of Portugese Timor in Malaya, indicate their status by notching their ears.
A fish never closes its eyes.
Dirty snow melts faster than white snow because it is darker and absorbs more heat.
The largest island in the Mediterranean sea is Sicily.
The Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel - which crossing Chesapeake near its mouth, at Norfolk, Virginia - uses a combination of bridge spans and tunnels. Manmade islands allow the roadway to enter the tunnels beneath the Bay's shipping channels.
Bananas are actually giant herbs - related to the orchid family.
Giraffes have no vocal chords.
Honey does not spoil.
A single bacteria cell, given all the food it needs, could divide into a ball of cells the size of the Earth in 24 hours.
Pittsburgh was named for a British prime minister.
An alligator can supposedly wolf down an eight pound chicken in one gulp.
An iguana can stay under water for twenty-eight minutes.
Mount St. Helens dropped 1,313 feet in 1980.
The Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. has 365 steps, representing every day of the year.
The largest iceberg ever found was 208 miles long and 60 miles wide. That is bigger than Massachusetts.
Adolf Hitler had planned to change the name of Berlin to Germania.
Minus 40 degrees Celsius is exactly the same temperature as minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
It is energy-efficient to turn off a fluorescent light only if it will not be used again within an hour or more. This is because of the high voltage needed to turn it on, and the shortened life this high voltage causes.
In an average lifetime a person will walk the equivilant of three times around the world.
China's largest city is Shanghai.
Giraffes have the same number of neck bones as humans: seven.
Good news for skunk lovers- an Illinois company is now manufacturing Eau de Pew a perfume created from diluted skunk scent.
The Roller Coaster was invented in the 17th century in Russia.
Mongolia is the largest landlocked country.
A neutron star has such density that a teaspoonful of its matter would weigh more than all the people on Earth.
In Papua New Guinea there are villages within five miles of each other which speak different languages.
The country of Costa Rica does not have an army.
The Horseshoe crab has blue blood.
While we're awake, our brain generates enough power to illuminate a light bulb of 25 watts.
In the course of a lifetime the average person will grow 2 meters of nose hair.
Human jaw muscles can generate a force of 200 pounds (90.8 kilograms) on the molars.
The world's termites outweigh the world's humans 10 to 1.
93% of a water melon is water.
The electric chair was invented by a dentist!Did you know that there are 206 bones in the adult human body and there are 300 in children (as they grow some of the bones fuse together).
Its impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
The Stegosaurus dinosaur measured up to 30 feet (9.1 meters) long but had a brain the size of a walnut.
If you could drive to the sun -- at 55 miles per hour -- it would take about 193 years
Arguably the largest state in the world, Western Australia covers one-third of the Australian continent. It spans over 2.5 million square kilometers (1 million square miles).
A toothpick is the object most often choked on by Americans!
An Astronaut can be up to 2 inches taller returning from space. The cartilage disks in the spine expand in the absence of gravity.
The official, neutral name of Switzerland, which has multiple official languages, is the latin 'Confederation Helvetica', or the Helvetic Confederation, thus the 'CH' on license plates, stickers and e-mail addresses.
Saturn isn't the only planet with rings: Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune have them, too.
When the queen of a clownfish school dies, a male clownfish changes its gender to become female and takes her place.
Penguins can jump as high as 6 feet in the air.
The giraffe is one of the quietest animals: it has no vocal chords to make any noise.
After bananas, a zoo gorillas favorite food is celery.
A large sunspot can last for about a week.
The sloth moves so slowly that green algae can grow undisturbed on it is fur!
Bees flap their wings 300 times a second.
A kind of jellyfish (Turritopsis nutricula) upon reaching adulthood can transform itself back to childhood by converting its cells. It may repeat this to live forever.
When you blush, your stomach lining also reddens.
If a pulsar's (small star made up of densely packed neutrons) piece the size of a small coin landed on Earth, it would weigh approximately 100 million tons.
A squirrel lives about 9 years.
Scientists have discovered that copper pollution of the atmosphere occurred about 2500 years ago. This was discovered by analyzing ice cores from Greenland. The pollution was attributed to the Romans who used copper for military purposes and to produce coins.
Over 1000 birds a year die from smashing into windows.
Persia changed its name to Iran in 1935.
If a person or an animal is born colorblind, they instantly have excellent night vision.
Cartoonist Rick London (London's Times) is from Lumberton.
The Brazilian 'railroad worm' has a head that glows with a red light, and has a green light on its side.
The planet Saturn has a density lower than water. So, if placed in water it would float.
70 years ago: The teletype and PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) were invented.
Muscles are made up of bundles from about 5 in the eyelid to about 200 in the buttock muscle.
More than 20,000,000 seahorses are harvested each year for folk medicinal purposes.
The human heart has enough pressure to squirt blood up to 30 feet away.
A stroke of lightning discharges from 10 to 100 million volts & 30,000 amperes of electricity.
The original name for the butterfly was flutterby!
There are more psycho-analysts per capita in Buenos Aires than any other place in the world.
20/20 vision means the eye can see normally at 20 feet. 20/15 is better; the eye can see at 20 feet what another eye sees at 15 feet.
A cow can give 100 quarts of milk per week.
The most popular name for a male cat is Tiger and female Samantha.
The average caterpillar has 2000 muscles. The average human has 700.
The placement of a donkeys eyes in its heads enables it to see all four feet at all times!
Antarctica is the only continent that does not have land areas below sea level.
Ellis Island opened to begin the processing of what would amount to more than 20 million immigrants to the United States in 1892. The immigration center was also used as a deportation station, and later, a Coast Guard Station, and then, a national park. Ellis Island is now a museum.
Thirty-five percent of the people who use personal ads for dating are already married.
The planet Venus does not tilt as it goes around the Sun, so consequently, it has no seasons.
The sun is about 149 million kms (93 million miles) from earth, yet it's 270,000 times closer than the next nearest star, which is 4.3 light years away.
In the Andes, time is often measured by how long it takes to smoke a cigarette.
A mosquito has 47 teeth.
The smallest state in the US has also the longest name. The official name of Rhode Island is Rhode Island and Plantation Provinces.
In downtown Lima, Peru, there is a large brass statue dedicated to Winnie-the-Pooh.
The typewriter was invented in 1829, and the automatic dishwasher in 1889.
South Africa produces two-thirds of the world's gold.
Thomas Edison, light bulb inventor, was afraid of the dark.
Babies are born far sighted - their eyes start to focus properly between 3 to 6 months of age.
The tongue of a blue whale is bigger than a taxi cab, and can weigh as much as an elephant.
If all major forms of cardiovascular disease were eliminated, human life expectance would increase by 9.78 years.
Given their sheer volume, ninety-nine percent of the living space on the planet is found in the oceans. The average depth of the oceans is 2.5 miles (4 km). The deepest point lies in the Mariana Trench, 6.8 miles (10.9 km) down. By way of comparison, Mount Everest is only 5.5 miles (8.8 km) high.
The mass of our entire atmosphere is estimated to be some 5.5 quadrillion tons (55 followed by 14 zeros).
All the moons of the Solar System are named after Greek and Roman mythology, except the moons of Uranus, which are named after Shakesperean charcters.
If you take one pound of cob webs and spread them out in one straight line, it will go around the earth 2 times.
Kangaroos can't walk backwards.
A teaspoonful of soil may contain 100 million bacteria.
Voyager 1 spacecraft is the farthest human-made object in the universe.
The only domestic animal that wasn't mentioned in the bible is a cat.
The average caterpillar has 16 legs.
Sea otters have 2 coats of fur.
The Reticulated Pythons are the world's longest snake and also the longest reptile.
Right handed people live, on average, nine years longer than left handed people do.
Since the successful launch of space shuttle Columbia on mission STS-90 there have been more crickets in space than humans.
Mars is red because its soil is very rusty (iron oxide.)
Gallium is a metal which melts on palm of the hand, due to its low melting point (29.76 Celsius).
The tongue of a blue whale weighs more than most elephants.
Natural gas has no odour. The smell is added artificially so that leaks can be detected.
The Sun is 330,330 times larger than Earth.
Belzoni is the Catfish Capital of the world.
Horses can sleep standing up.
Men can read smaller print than women; women can hear better.
Frogs eat their skin after they shed it.
In the 1800s an Eggplant was known as a mad apple and believed to be poisonous.
The longest recorded flight of a chicken is thirteen seconds
10 years ago: First patent for a genetically-engineered mouse was issued to Harvard Medical School.
The Earth weighs around 6,588,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 tons.
The biggest egg in the world is the ostrich egg. It could take as many as 30 chicken eggs to equal its volume, and up to 2 hours to hard boil.
In New Zealand, the Presidential highway links the towns of Gore and Clinton. Gore is also known as the Brown Trout Capital of the World and New Zealand's country music capital.
The lighter was invented before the match (in 1816 by J.W. Dobereiner).
A day on the planet Mercury is twice as long as its year. Mercury rotates very slowly but revolves around the Sun in slightly less than 88 days.
Smartest dogs: 1) border collie; 2)poodle; 3)golden retriever; Dumbest dog: Afghan
The smallest 'country' in the world to have its own top-level domain name is Norfolk Island, off the coast of Australia.
The human brain is 80% water.
In your lifetime, you'll shed over 40 pounds of skin.
Murphys Oil Soap is the chemical most commonly used to clean elephants.
The Galileo spacecraft traveled to Jupiter at a speed of 107,000 mph; fast enough to cross the U.S. in 85 seconds.
The temperature can be determined by counting the number of cricket chirps in fourteen seconds and adding 40.
Io, a moon of jupiter, has the most active volcanoes in the solar system.
There is a prison in Ossining, New York named 'Sing Sing.'
Hydrogen gas is the least dense substance.
The McCoy Federal Building in Jackson is the first federal building in the U.S. named for an African American.
A banana is about 75 percent water.
If you shrunk a car to the size of a roach, the roach could outrun the car. Roaches can run about 200 scale miles per hour.
House flies have a lifespan of two weeks.
The lightning bolt is 3 times hotter than the sun.
There are between 100,000,000,000 and 1,000,000,000,000 stars in a normal galaxy.
When you get goosebumps and your hair stands, the hair helps to trap air, making you feel warmer by keeping in your body heat.
The average person will swallow 295 times while eating.
Mexico City is sinking at a rate of 18 inches (46cm) per year as a result of draining water.
La Paz, the capital city of Bolivia is the highest capital in the world. Ski resorts there operate only on weekends during the South American summer (November to March). At an elevation of over 17,000 feet, it is too cold to operate during the South American winter.
Velcro was invented by a Swiss guy who was inspired by the way burrs attached to clothing.
An estimated 6,000 American teenagers lose their virginity every day.
The average adult male shaves off 1 lb of beard per year.
The only letter not appearing on the Periodic Table is the letter 'J'.
3000 of every 3001 calico kittens are female.
Armadillos spend about 80% of their lives asleep.
At 90 below zero your breath will freeze in mid-air and fall to the ground.
Fish are the only vertebrates that outnumber birds.
A U.S. backed government study found that pigs can become alcoholics.
Your brain is capable of storing more than 100 billion bits of information.
Polar bears are left handed.
A large woodpecker can peck as fast as 20 times a second and up to 12,000 times a day.
US Route 66 ran from Chicago to Los Angeles, approximating the course of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe, a railroad which, we might mention, no longer goes to any of those three towns.
Sharks are immune to cancer.
St. Petersburg, FL once had 427 consecutive days of sunshine.
One acre of trees absorbs enough carbon dioxide per year to match that emitted by driving a car 26,000 miles.
Most cows give more milk when they listen to music.
Researchers recently sprouted a lotus seed known to be 1,288 years old, making it the oldest seed ever germinated.
The Earth gets 100 tons heavier every day due to falling space dust.
John Stetson learned hatmaking in Dunn's Falls.
One ragweed plant can release as many as one billion grains of pollen.
There are no poisonous snakes in Maine.
Flamingos can only eat with their head upside down.
Spotted skunks do handstands before they spray.
It is estimated that millions of trees in the world are accidentally planted by squirrels who bury nuts and then forget where they hid them.
The star Alpha Herculis is so big that 25 of our entire solar system would have to be placed end to end to equal the star's diameter.
The average American spends six months at red lights throughout his or her life.
It takes 70% less energy to produce a ton of paper from recycled paper than from trees.
The Sun travels at a speed of 250km (155 miles) per second, but it still takes 230 million years for it to complete a single revolution of the galaxy.
When glass breaks, the cracks move at speeds of more than 4,500 km/h (3,000 miles).
It takes approximately 12 hours for food to entirely digest.
A camel has a straight spine, despite its hump!
The Nile river flows North.
Morocco was the first country to recognize the United States in 1789.
The honey bee is the only bee that dies after stinging.
There is a canyon on Mars that would stretch from New York to San Francisco.
If your mouth was completely dry, you would not be able to distinguish the taste of anything.
There are more Irish in New York City than in Dublin, Ireland; more Italians in New York City than in Rome, Italy; and more Jews in New York City than in Tel Aviv, Israel.
The wristwatch was invented in 1904 by Louis Cartier.
Diamonds are the hardest known substance.
A giraffe's neck contains the same number of vertebrae as a human.
With more than 80,000 arms, the Basket Starfish has the greatest number of arms.
The King and Queen of the Gypsies are buried in Rose Hill Cemetery in Meridian.
Starfish don't have brains.
An Elephant is not afraid of a mouse.
There are more bacteria and microbes in our body than actual cells that make up the body.
The amount of water beneath our ground soil is 50 times as much as all the water in the rivers and lakes combined.
The seeds of an Indian Lotus tree remain viable for 300 to 400 years.
The smallest island with country status is Pitcairn in Polynesia, at just 1.75 sq. miles/4,53 sq. km.
When glass breaks, the cracks move at speeds of up to 3,000 miles per hour.
The canopy of a rainforest is so thick, only one percent of sunlight reaches the ground.
Sunlight can penetrate clean ocean water to a depth of 73 meters (240ft.)
The first electronic digital computer (called ENIAC - the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Calculator) was developed in 1946 and contained over 18,000 vacuum tubes.
The leg bones of a bat are so thin that no bat can walk.
60 years ago: Otto Hahn discovered nuclear fission by splitting uranium, Teflon was invented.
The star 'Lucy' in constellation Centaurus is actually a huge cosmic diamond of 10 billion trillion trillion carats.
Samuel Morse, the inventor of the morse code, was a painter as well. One of his portraits is of the first governor of Arkansas and hangs in the governors mansion of that state.
Dogs sweat through their paw pads.
The largest known star Canis Majoris is so big that if our Sun were a ball 117 centimeters in diameter, Canis Majoris would be 2.25 kilometers.
In Tokyo, they sell toupees for dogs.
Everest in ocean at Mariana TrenchIf Mount Everest were placed at the bottom of the deepest part of the ocean, its peak would still be a mile underwater.
The nerves in our body are most concentrated in our fingertips.
Australia's new parliament house in the nation's capital Canberra is one of the largest buildings in the southern hemisphere. The building covers nearly 15 per cent of a 32 hectare site and boasts 4500 rooms. Its floor space is approximately 250,000 square meters.
15 million blood cells are produced and destroyed in the human body every second.
A cockroach can live for several weeks without its head.
US Patent number 3,593,345 was granted for the 'Whisper Seat', a toilet seat with a soundproof lining so that noise won't be heard by others.
Spains biggest source of income is tourism.
Hot water freezes quicker than cold water.
The electric eel of South America (Electrophorus electricus) can generate over 600 volts, and can paralyze even a horse.
Lake BaikalLake Baikal in Russia contains more water than all the North American Great Lakes combined.
A cat has 32 muscles in each ear.
A cows sweat glands are in it is nose.
If you weighed all the earthworms in the US, they wouldd be about 55 times heavier than the combined weight of all Americans.
The largest flying animal was the pterosaur which lived 70 million years ago. This reptile had a wing span of 36-39 feet (11-11.9 meters) and weighed 190-250 pounds (86-113.5 kilograms).
Your blood vessels, if laid end to end, would encircle the globe twice over.
The planet Venus has the longest day.
Did you know that you are more likely to be killed by a champagne cork than a by a poisonous spider?
At the ocean's deepest point, due to immense pressure, an iron ball would take more than an hour to sink to the ocean floor.
An Octopus has three hearts.
The Giant Burrowing Frog doesn't croak. It hoots like an owl.
How many times can a woodpecker peck? 20 Times a second.
Honolulu boasts the only royal palace in the U.S.
When asked to name a color, 3 out of 5 people will say red.
Only female mosquitoes bite people.
Human thigh bones are stronger than concrete.
The Sphinx sits on guard over the Great Pyramids.
More than 20 million meteroids enter Earths atmosphere every day. Most are no bigger than a speck of dust.
Made up of billions of pieces of ice, the average thickness of each of Saturn's seven giant rings only ranges from about 200 to 3000 meters.
The deepest part of the ocean is 35,813 feet (10,916 meters) deep and occurs in the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean. At that depth the pressure is 18,000 pounds (9172 kilograms) per square inch.
The average ocean floor is about 3,600 meters deep (12000ft).
The metal with the highest melting point is tungsten, at 3410 degrees Celcius (6170F).
A living tree never stops growing.
There are about 10,000 taste buds on the average human tongue.
Tigers have striped skin, not just striped fur.
The blue whale can produce sounds up to 188 decibels. This is the loudest sound produced by a living animal and has been detected as far away as 530 miles.
Everyone's tongue print is different.
Over 2,500 left handed people a year are killed from using products made for right handed people.
Only male turkeys (Toms) gobble, females make a clicking noise.
A lobster can lay up to 150,000 eggs at one time.
The oldest and largest clearly visible meteorite crater site in the world is The Vredefort Dome in Free State, South Africa. It is 380km across.
The largest country in Africa is the Sudan. The Arc of the Covenant is said to be located in Axum, Ethiopia.
Dominica, Mexico, Zambia, Kiribati, Fiji and Egypt all have birds on their flags.
A crocodile always grows new teeth to replace the old teeth.
Guam has seven public elementary schools.
Tuna swim an average of 9 mph constantly. They never stop moving.
Men are 6 times more likely to be struck by lighting than women!
Only humans sleep on their backs.
In space, astronauts cannot cry, because there is no gravity, so the tears can't flow!
Shrimp's heart is in its head.
Cats can make over 1,000 different vocal sounds, and dogs can make only about 10.
Sheeps, goats and the octopus have almost rectangular-oval pupils in their eyes.
Peavey Electronics in Meridian is the world's largest manufacturer of musical amplification equipment.
A bee sting is acidic and a wasp sting is alkali. To treat a sting by one of these you should use the opposite type of chemical.
The Toilet Lid Lock, to prevent unauthorized access to the toilet.
Turtles and sea cucumbers can breathe through their butts.
Cats urine glows under a black-light!
Hydrofluoric acid will dissolve glass.
Diamonds are the hardest substance known to man.
The state of Oregon has one city named Sisters and another called Brothers. Sisters got its name from a nearby trio of peaks in the Cascade Mountains known as the Three Sisters. Brothers was named as a counterpart to Sisters.
The diameter of a proton is approximately 0.000000000001 mm (1/25,000,000,000,000 inch).
The common goldfish is the only animal that can see both infra-red and ultra-violet light.
In a full grown rye plant, the total length of fine root hairs may reach 6600 miles (10,645 km).
If you could throw a snowball fast enough, it would totally vaporize when it hit a brick wall.
Dolphins sleep with one eye open.
In 10 minutes, a hurricane releases more energy than all the worlds nuclear weapons combined.
On average, people spend more than five years of their lives dreaming.
Football great Walter Peyton was from Columbia.
Chimps are the only animals that can recognize themselves in a mirror.
Skylab, the first American space station, fell to the earth in thousands of pieces in 1979. Thankfully most over the ocean.
Norway contains the largest icefield in Europe.
The smallest planet in our solar system is Pluto (now called 'dwarf planet' and not a true planet.)
The San Blas Indian women of Panama consider giant noses a mark of great beauty. They paint black lines down the center of their noses to make them appear longer.
Due to gravitational effects, you weigh slightly less when the moon is directly overhead.
The flea can jump 350 times its body length, that is like human jumping the length of about 7 football fields.
A diamond is the hardest natural substance.
Dogs can hear sounds that you cant.
The average iceberg weighs 20,000,000 tons!
The ant can lift things 10 times its own weight.
The Atlantic Giant Squid's eye can be as large as 15.75 inches (40 centimeters) wide.
A car traveling 100 mph would take more than 29 million years to reach the nearest star.
The International Checkers Hall Of Fame is in Petal.
5,865,696,000,000 The amount of miles in a light year.
On average, humans have 9,000 taste buds in their mouths, tongues, and throats.
Several nations (Norway, Australia, New Zealand, France, Great Britain, Chile, and Argentina) have advanced claims on sections of the continent of Antarctica. The United States does not recognize any claims.
The volume of water in the Amazon river is greater than the next eight largest rivers in the world combined.
95% of all the animal species on the earth are insects.
The United States consumes 25% of all the world's energy.
The largest cave in the world (the Sarawak Chamber in Malaysia) is 2,300 feet (701 meters) long, 980 feet (299 meters) wide, and more than 230 feet (70 meters) high.
Turkeys will peck to death members of the flock that are physically inferior or different.
The speed of light - 299 million meters a second - would still take about 26 billion years to reach one end of the visible universe to the other.
You can figure out which way is south if you are near a tree stump. The growth rings are wider on the south side.
Hydrogen can be a metal, but it is only in a solid state under extreme conditions such as being in the core of Jupiter!
The Vicksburg National Cemetery is the second oldest in the country.
There is a high and low tide because of our moon and the Sun.
If global warming forecasts are true, the island country of Tuvalu might cease to exist within 100 years.
Lake BaikalLake Baikal is the deepest lake in the world.
The housefly hums in the middle octave, key of F
The largest meteorite crater in the world is in Winslow, Arizona. It is 4,150 feet across and 150 feet deep.
Camels have three eyelids to protect themselves from blowing sand.
1 inch (25mm) of rain water is equivalent to 15 inches (381mm) of dry, powdery snow.
The 4-H Club started in Holmes County.
It is possible to lead a cow upstairs but not downstairs, because cows knees can't bend properly to walk back down.
The largest of modern constellations is Hydra.
Genghis Khans cavalry rode female horses so soldiers could drink their milk.
Mississippi was the first state to outlaw imprisonment of debtors.
According to experts, large caves tend to 'breathe'; they inhale and exhale great quantities of air when the barometric pressure on the surface changes, and air rushes in or out seeking equilibrium.
Elephants can hear through their feet.
In May 1948, Mt. Ruapehu and Mt. Ngauruhoe, both in New Zealand, erupted simultaneously.
The ostrich yolk is the largest single cell in the world.
Hummingbirds can't walk.
Only one person in two billion will live to be 116 or older.
The smallest island with country status is Pitcairn in Polynesia, at just 1.75 sq miles/4,53 sq km.
A lobster has a sense of smell about 1000 times keener than a human.
The human body contains about six-thousand miles of blood vessels.
The largest man-made lake in the U.S. is Lake Mead, created by Hoover Dam.
The winds on Saturn blow at 1,200 mph. 10 times faster than a strong Earth hurricane.
The heart of giraffe is two feet long, and can weigh as much as twenty four pounds.
The Hudson River along the island of Manhattan flows in either direction depending on the tide.
The deepest surface point on Mars is Hellas, about 3 km deep.
Some dragonflies can fly at speeds of up to 50 miles per hour.
The tentacles of the giant Arctic jellyfish can reach 120 feet (36.6 meters) in length.
Many physicists believe wormholes (a 'shortcut' through space and time) exist all around us but they are smaller than atoms.
The effect of Relativity made Astronaut Sergei Avdeyev a fraction of a second younger upon his return to Earth after 747 days in space.
